{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0  Hi, everyone. I thought\
to leave you with a quick \
 summary of what would\
normally be a revision \
 lecture where we just very\
quickly run through each \
 of the weeks. And I'll\
try and highlight the key \
 points that I think have\
been really important. \
 Obviously, don't\
take this as the only \
 things that you\
should be looking at. \
 You'll be expected to know\
all of the content that \
 we've pointed you to.\
But I just really wanted \
 to pull out the key\
aspects that I think are \
 conceptually really important\
for your work if you choose \
 to continue with anything\
like human AI or human \
 -computer interaction\
in your next steps. And \
 I'll also end up with a\
little bit of information \
 about how the exam structure\
looks like, similarly \
 to what I've been showing\
you in one of the LGTs. \
 so i'm hoping that for\
example week one when you look \
 at back at it now everything\
should be really obvious \
 what we really need you to to\
look at is are the definitions \
 of interaction design\
and how it differs to \
 interaction design goals what\
are you trying to think about \
 as an interaction designer\
that humans are really \
 important and how you think\
about humans as well as being \
 able to kind of work with\
and apply these concepts of \
 affordances and signifiers,\
which we spend most of the \
 time thinking about, and\
then also be able to start \
 thinking about how these\
apply within GenAI systems, \
 which, again, we've started\
doing. I would also point you \
 to the not particularly long\
blog that talks about AI \
 as a design material, because\
I think that's a really \
 lovely way from someone who's\
very high up in Microsoft, \
 a lovely way of kind of\
getting you to think through \
 those concepts and see how\
people put them together. \
 So lecture one should be\
relatively obvious to you \
 by now, but these are the\
main things to look at. \
 In terms of lecture two, \
 obviously we've spent a\
lot of time in the lecture \
 thinking about what is it\
cognitively, how does our thinking \
 work, how does our\
perception work. It's really \
 important, the perception part\
especially in thinking part \
 is really important for design\
because that essentially \
 mediates how your\
participants will engage with \
 whatever you've created but\
then i think the really key \
 key key piece for you is to\
very deeply understand what \
 mental models mean what's\
the difference between the \
 conceptual and represented\
and mental models how do \
 these relate to the goals\
of evaluation and execution, \
 and then be able to link\
it back to, you know, AI as \
 design material, as affordances,\
as signifiers, and so \
 on. So it's the connections\
in between the lectures and \
 not just knowing definitions,\
but being able to apply \
 a definition on a given\
system. So if in the exam, you \
 will get a screenshot of\
something and someone says, \
 well, on this screen, what\
would the likely gulfs of \
 evaluation and execution\
look like and what would you \
 imagine a mental model of\
someone who's seeing this \
 screen for the first time\
will be you need to be able to \
 really apply these concepts\
to a problem like that \
 rather than just rattle off\
some definitions and then just \
 not be able to do anything\
else with it all right and \
 then obviously the distributed\
cognition i think as \
 you all know now it really\
ties in with how mental models \
 and how perception works\
so kind of seeing those \
 connections and being able\
to analyze systems within the \
 the concepts of you know\
offloading whether it's \
 cognitive or computational\
annotations embedding embodiment \
 is what i mean all of\
these things will be quite \
 important for you to to know\
and obviously if someone says \
 you know describe computer\
science social actors \
 theories and then try and\
explain what that theory would \
 predict about a app that\
i've just described for you \
 that again should be something\
you're capable of doing. \
 All right, \
 so lecture three is then\
really looking at the \
 usability goals and heuristics,\
right? And those are \
 two long lists, and those\
might be the only lists \
 that you might want to kind\
of remember, or at least \
 be able to remember five\
out of six, or eight out \
 of ten kind of concepts\
there. But what I really \
 want you to look at is\
understand why, if we're \
 talking about control how\
that relates to mental \
 models how that relates to\
the affordances and signifiers \
 and all of these things\
all of those connections \
 between lectures again\
become really important \
 so don't just remember\
things in a rote way again \
 try and think about how\
would you use this and how \
 would you apply it look\
at the apps on your phone \
 and try to kind of think\
about how the goals map \
 onto what you're seeing on\
the app how the heuristics \
 map onto an app that you\
really like and an app \
Timestamp 5 minutes you think is really clunky\
if you've never opened \
 it again. That's probably\
the best way of really \
 getting a sense whether you\
understand the material. \
 Finally, there's been a\
section on guidelines, the \
 emerging guidelines around\
human AI. I don't expect \
 you to remember everything\
which was in those papers, \
 those long lists, but I\
want you to be able to, \
 again, conceptually understand\
how does this change \
 from some of the basics UX\
where the goals are clear \
 and the underlying technology\
is very deterministic. \
 So have a think\
about that and again \
 try and apply that\
knowledge to an \
 example or two that\
you see around you. \
 So lecture four then\
has moved back into very \
 traditional HCI theory,\
talking about principles \
 of human-centered designs,\
the different ways in \
 which people represent\
the similarities across \
 kind of different life\
cycles or double diamonds \
 or the IDEO five stages\
or Stanford eSchool five \
 stages and so on so just\
having a sense of how these \
 design models look like\
is really helpful for you \
 and being able to talk\
about these about their \
 differences and similarities\
it's also going to be \
 helpful the key part here\
is as you imagine the \
 difference between a need a\
human need, or a user need, \
 and a requirement, which\
is kind of something \
 else, and looking at the\
system, right? So being able \
 to very clearly and\
succinctly describe a need \
 and a requirement that\
might fall out of that need, \
 try and apply that onto\
systems that you see around \
 you. Again, just be able to\
apply this rather than just \
 describe in abstract, but\
then also really try and \
 connect that to the methods\
that you use. And there's been \
 a long list of methods and\
there was a lot of reading \
 for you to do this week.\
So kind of go back over all \
Timestamp 7 minutes of that and try to connect\
it again to the material in \
 lectures one, two, three,\
and be able to especially \
 focus on interviews, for\
example, as one of the ways in \
 the most common ways in which\
people would be collecting \
 user needs and then trying\
to infer requirements. \
 One of the other pointers\
I would point you to is um \
 is the technique of empathy\
maps which we've done \
 in one of the lgts i think\
that might be really helpful \
 for you to look back at\
as well so that you're \
 aware of it and you remember\
because i think it's a it's \
 a nice example of how\
you go from a need to \
 requirements or how you try\
and abstract some of the themes \
 that come out and then\
finally there's been sections \
 around how kind of user\
-centered the AI model \
 development is, and I think\
that's also really important \
 for you to look at and to\
understand quite deeply. \
 In lecture five, \
 it's prototyping is about\
building things, right? \
 So that has ended up\
being a much more kind \
 of hands-on experience,\
and that's what we've \
 been doing in LGTs. In\
terms of the theory and \
 things that you should\
remember for the exam, \
 really knowing what a prototype \
 is, what the function of it is, \
 what role does it\
play in design, how \
 does this relate to\
assumption testings, \
 and why is that even\
important? Those are the \
 kinds of questions that\
you need to kind of feel \
 very confident about. And\
again, if someone says, \
 I'm thinking of building\
this kind of an app, \
 I have these\
assumptions, how would a \
 prototype look like in\
this context? you need \
 to be able to create\
something that's \
 plausible and feasible\
and seems reasonable \
 and kind of makes\
sense, right? So \
 you need to be\
able to apply it. \
 There are some\
hierarchies about \
 types of prototypes\
and, you know, \
 high fidelity, low fidelity,\
and some subsections of \
 those and the pros and cons.\
And again, you should be \
 able to say, well, if I'm\
making this prototype for \
 this app in this context,\
I think I'd be using these \
 methods because I need it\
really quick or I need to be \
 very precise about the UX\
and it needs to be pixel \
 perfect. So all of these things\
are, again, about knowing \
 what your toolbox is and\
then being able to apply it. \
 So lecture six was\
your favorite week, \
 probably reading week.\
there's nothing to really \
 talk about there, but\
I just wanted to put \
 it in so that no one\
thinks we've forgotten it. \
 And let's move on to week\
seven. So that's been \
 Georgia's work that's been\
looking at automation agency \
 and fairness. And I think\
there's been some really \
 interesting examples that\
she's pulled out from very \
 recent HCI literature\
around kind of human AI \
 collaborations. When we try to\
abstract away some of the key \
 concepts, those are around\
control and automation. \
 And you need to be able\
to, again, analyze systems \
 that someone puts in front\
of you in these terms. \
 It's really important for\
you to understand what \
 fairness is and how it's\
defined and what the \
 challenges are and what\
do we know about it being \
 problematic in the AI\
systems that we've had, both \
 in terms of the deep\
learning type as well as the \
 generative models type\
that we have now. And then \
 probably really important,\
being able to, again, \
 articulate the list of\
possible harms. That's another, \
 maybe third now, list that\
might be helpful for you \
 to remember. So knowing\
the types of harms, knowing \
 their applications, knowing\
how they emerge, and be \
 able to analyze a system to\
identify how likely is it \
 that the harms are there.\
those would be quite important \
 capabilities for you to\
kind of pick up as you're \
 preparing for your exam.\
And then finally, the \
Timestamp 11 minutes concepts of transparency and\
explainability and how they \
 differ, that's really\
important for you to know too. \
 In terms of the\
environmental sustainability, \
 I think that lecture has less \
 of kind of theory content. \
 I think that the key\
aspects that you really want \
 to remember from there\
are around the sources of \
 environmental impact that\
AI you know has often been \
 talked about as potentially\
being able to stop \
 global warming and so on\
if we get to a particular \
 level of AI that will allow\
us to make breakthroughs \
 but at the moment it might\
actually have quite strong \
 energy impacts or\
sustainability impacts on its \
 own so knowing that this\
happens and kind of being \
 able to describe it and\
talk about it is important \
 as well as getting a\
broader understanding of how \
 the calculations that talk\
about how much AI use, \
 how much energy AI uses\
and which stages, having \
 a broader understanding\
of what that looks \
 like is probably really\
important for you too. \
 So lecture nine was, as\
you remember, a little bit \
 of a beast where we tried\
to go through evaluation, \
 which could have\
easily been a module \
 just on its own for\
all eight weeks. \
 But the key pieces\
for you to really \
 make sure you understand\
are both, again, \
 the whys, so the purpose\
of the evaluation and \
 understanding why we have\
so many methods and the pros \
 and cons of each, and\
then be able to describe \
 these methods in the different\
hierarchies that we've \
 kind of outlined within\
the lecture. So the \
 differences between precision\
or aiming for precision or \
 aiming for generalizability\
or aiming for realism, \
 as well as kind of understanding\
what does a concrete \
 or abstract or obtrusive\
or non-obtrusive methods \
 look like. That kind of\
understanding will be \
 quite useful for you, as\
well as understanding the \
 pros and cons of involving\
or not involving users. \
 So, again, it's about here's a \
 toolkit. There's so many tools. \
 If I place you in front\
of a problem, here's an \
 app, here's a design brief\
you're supposed to sort. \
 How will you make\
choices and can you \
 argue about the\
choices you're making? \
 That's what I really\
want you to learn. \
 So there are some specific\
methods that we went into \
 detail. So the heuristic\
evaluations and think aloud. \
 You've experienced the think\
aloud method in the LGT. \
 Read up on the heuristic\
evaluation. and then obviously \
 there's a lot that we've\
spent on experiments so I \
 will be expecting you to\
be able to maybe not go off \
 and build a two million\
pounds worth of experimental \
 studies somewhere with\
clinical populations but I will \
 expect you to be able to\
discuss the differences between \
 correlation and causation\
and why experiments are \
 designed to address causation\
what are the techniques \
 that they use, what does a\
hypothesis mean, what does \
 independent, dependent, and\
controlled variables mean, \
 the concepts of reliability\
and validity and the \
 different subtypes and how\
they threaten the causation \
 estimation that we want to\
create within an experiment, \
 as well as the types of\
design. So kind of very briefly \
 broad understanding of what\
between and subjects and \
 within subject design means.\
That's going to be quite \
 important for you too. So\
I'm conscious that this is \
 the long lecture. I will\
say again, there's been the \
 relatively long\
text from Kronbach \
 that I kept on\
saying, please read. \
 So I'll say it again,\
like, please read it. \
 There's a lot of theory\
and detail there that we \
 didn't get into within\
the lecture. And this is \
 the one lecture where you\
really need to read that \
 material quite well,\
because there's a lot of \
 content there that I need\
you to think about at \
 your own pace before\
you turn up to the exam. \
 And then finally, red\
teaming and field studies. \
 I think that's a\
continuation. In some sense, \
 it's a continuation of\
the evaluation, right? \
 Because both red teaming\
and technology probes are \
 testing something about\
the systems you built. \
 The key piece is to understand\
what appropriation is, \
 the concept of appropriation,\
and how red teaming and \
 field studies or technology\
probes as specific examples \
 both relate to appropriation\
in different ways so for \
 technology probes i'll\
expect you to know what the \
 definition is what is the\
role in design when do you use \
 it do you use it at the very\
start do you use it at the \
 very end do you use it\
somewhere in the middle and how \
 is it different to kind of\
prototypes and um how do \
 you engage with that technology\
slightly or with that \
 technique slightly differently\
and then for red teaming \
 you should remember what\
the definition is why is it \
 needed within the systems how\
it relates to lecture what \
 was it eight seven um the\
one that talks about harms \
 so how does that relate to\
harms of ai systems why do \
 we need it as well as the\
types of potential attacks \
 as well as the defenses. So\
I think the constitutional \
 classifiers, that piece from\
Anthropic, is really helpful \
 for you to read because it\
might be really important \
 and seems like a really\
broadly applicable approach. \
 Okay, so that would have\
been the whole content \
 of the class. There's\
been a reasonable amount, \
 but I think you've also\
been able to really engage \
 with things practically\
within the LGTs, which \
 I was really happy with.\
So now let's just move \
 on to an example of what\
could be in the exam. \
 So I'll be pointing\
to the HCI exam, \
 which is very similar\
in style and design. \
 And I won't be going\
through all these things \
 in too much detail,\
but I expect that \
Timestamp 17 minutes you're able to pause\
the video and then read. \
 The first thing that I want\
to show here is that, as \
 I kept on saying over the\
last what 15 minutes um \
 most of what you'll be asked\
to do is always showing \
 that you understand a concept\
which is not that hard \
 but then are able to apply\
it in in context so it will \
 be about um in in in the\
hci course we've always \
 had a context so you're a ux\
company that's been tasked \
 by nhs to design a\
vaccination passport app for \
 the use in sporting venues\
and the specific focus for \
 you is to look at how\
well can it work for event \
 organizers and the NHS or for\
the travelers or something \
 like this right so you\
will be given a specific \
 context for any question and\
then you're supposed to be \
 able to show how you're\
able to use all the concepts \
 that we've talked about\
and then apply them to that \
 specific context so how\
does that look in practice \
 so from the same exam\
you might be saying well \
 okay you need to understand\
the needs and challenges \
 so you might be asked\
to create an interview \
 and then what we're really\
trying to look at is \
 hey do you know how an\
interview question looks \
 like are you able to build\
a series of questions \
 that will help you to\
understand what a need \
 could be so do these\
seem to be viable do they \
 follow the right pattern\
are you showing that \
 you've understood\
something about the context \
 and you're asking kind\
of questions that would \
 allow you to understand\
the needs so that's \
 really what we're\
looking at and it's going \
 to be very similar this\
is why we've done the \
 this is why we for example\
done interviews during \
 the lgt so that model\
of how do you build an \
 interview question so\
that you actually get \
 valuable answers back\
that's what we're trying to \
 do and how are you able\
to argue and articulate \
 why you're asking the\
questions you're asking \
 similarly we when we ask\
you about um particular \
 concepts whether it's mental\
models or red teaming or what \
 want you it will always be\
within the context of okay \
 describe something about\
a specific thing such as a \
 map or a huddle booking one\
that would break a mental \
 model people are likely to\
have um and then be clear \
 about what you think is\
broken and then suggest an \
 alternative design right so\
this asks you to show us that \
 not only you can refer to\
the definition but then \
 when given a specific design\
problem you're able to show \
 that you're able to think\
like a designer right so \
 that you're capable of\
applying that content and again \
 there won't be one right\
answer but it's just like \
 within the lgts if you're\
doing something that seems \
 reasonable and shows that\
you understand the concepts \
 um it's going to be okay and\
there's some you know rubric \
 behind the scenes that\
relates to are you using the \
Timestamp 20 minutes techniques that we've\
talked about in the lecture \
 and then how do we recognize\
which one's good and which \
 one's bad and then finally\
again like the same thing \
 applies for the evaluation\
technique so in this case \
 it's it says we'll go back\
to problem statement that's \
 been defined before and\
assume that your prototyping \
 has been successful outline\
what evaluation metrics \
 would you be looking at\
for your system so remember \
 that's what you were supposed\
to do for LGTs as well and \
 we're just asking you within\
that context to give us \
 plausible indicators of\
success right and through the \
 HCI lectures we were even\
able to show people the \
 full exam they could see all\
the questions at this point \
 but what what they weren't\
able to see was the \
 specific context and it was\
really about even if you know \
 those questions i unless\
you're able to apply them on \
 the context that doesn't\
really help you and i think \
 a similar model is is is\
happening within the exam \
 here we're not going to be\
trying to kind of catch you \
 out on things that you might\
have missed somewhere in \
 the scripts it's really\
about the key concepts and \
 your ability to apply them\
from what i've seen within \
 the lgts i really hope that\
everyone will be more than \
 capable of doing this i think\
you've all been very good \
 at um kind of seemingly\
understanding what we're \
 asking you to do and why\
things work um and i hope that \
 this will help you kind of\
de-risk um the way how you \
 prepare for an exam so you\
know that you don't have \
 to wrote, learn, and remember\
a long list, there might \
 be like three that you want\
to kind of keep in mind \
 but really \
 be much more focused on\
are you able to apply \
 these concepts, are you\
able to use them because \
 that's what we want you\
to be able to do after you \
 end, right? You don't\
have to remember things, \
 you need to be able to\
apply them. So with this, \
 all the best of luck, \
 happy new year if\
you're watching it after \
 the holidays, happy\
holidays or holiday \
 break if you're\
watching this sooner. \
 And yeah, fingers crossed.\
I really hope that \
 all of you will do\
exceedingly well on the exam. \
 All right. It was\
lovely teaching you \
 and I hope to see\
you around. Bye. }