{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Timestamp 0 Hi, everyone, and\
welcome to week eight \
 of the Human-AI\
Interaction course. \
 Today, we're going to\
enter a new kind of block \
 of learning where we're\
going to talk about human \
 -centered values and the\
design of AI systems. \
 And they're going to be\
quite a different set of \
 values that we're going\
to discuss over this week. \
 Today, we're going to start\
first with automation and \
 agency, and then we're\
going to look into fairness. \
 okay so the current rhetoric\
around ai often kind \
 of has a singular focus\
on fully automated methods \
 for example as a replacement\
of human work and human \
 labor and to an extent this\
is kind of understandable \
 right we are we we as\
humans are not really good \
 at repetitive tasks we might\
have cognitive biases we \
 might be have errors in\
judgment because of insufficient \
 information We don't\
have big enough memories. \
 And we might even have\
ambiguous intents that \
Timestamp 1 minute AI systems might be\
able to refine, right? \
 But an extreme\
focus in automation \
 is also concerning\
for many reasons. \
 One of this was about\
to do with fairness, \
 which we will discuss\
a little bit later. But \
 another kind of important\
reason relates to \
 the loss of critical\
domain expertise that \
 humans have and then\
the AI system might not. \
 and we're going to talk about \
 two well-known examples of this \
 one known as google flu trends \
 and the other one about boeing \
 so originally human computer\
interaction in human \
 computer interaction\
there was this kind of \
 misleading one-dimensional\
thinking suggesting that \
 designers have to choose\
a place between human \
 control and computer\
automation and would typically \
 consider that automation\
was a better option. \
 So if we imagine this as a\
timeline or as a line, then \
 you would have from one\
side the human control and \
 the other side the human\
automation and designers were \
 getting into this mindset,\
but they would have to choose \
 a yellow point in between\
those two for the design. \
 however this kind of kind\
of more one-dimensional \
 thinking has brought also\
some problems and i'll bring \
 two examples of that here\
so google flu trends uh \
 is a you can see a graph\
of that from 2015 i think \
 it was a web service that\
was operated by google and \
 it provided estimates of\
flu activity for more than \
 25 countries basically what\
it did is it aggregated \
 search query so and then it\
tried to make predictions \
 about flu activity so if\
people wrote things like \
 what are the symptoms of\
the flu then perhaps this \
 would be taken into a\
consideration that this person \
 might have those symptoms\
and then it would try to kind \
 of make predictions about\
the flu activity in that \
 country where that person\
is from and this was first \
 launched in 2008 to help\
predict outbreaks of flu. \
 And Google Flu Trends\
was in the end though \
 predicting more than\
double the proportion of \
 doctor visits for\
influenza-like sicknesses \
 based on the real data that\
the estimates they had from \
 reports from the Centers\
of Disease control and \
 probation prevention the cdc\
so called cdc and the united \
 states so the cdc had real\
reports from laboratories \
 across the united states\
and it was the google trends \
 were actually predicting\
double the amount of the \
 people that the those reports\
were saying and this was \
 actually despite the fact\
that the google flu trends was \
 built to help predict those\
reports so they were over \
 predicting it over on two\
sides on on almost on a \
 scale a double scale so why\
what happened here what failed \
Timestamp 4 minutes so partially this was\
because they were trying to \
 automate this process of\
of generating these reports \
 and knowing where to send more\
um support which hospitals \
 or which regions to send\
more support but because \
 of the the secretive like\
the non-transparent non \
 -transparent algorithms that\
Google has and because they \
 had started to include\
features like autosuggest which \
 altered like honest honest\
let's say more search patterns \
 that made it made the\
original modeling much much \
 less effective and kind\
of influenced what the the \
 report was so this attempt\
for automation kind of failed \
 perhaps more more crucially\
because they had fatalities, \
 there was the failure of\
Boeing's MCAS system that \
 led to two accidents in 2018\
and 2019, and they killed \
 together around 346 people\
across the two flights. \
 And the problem here was\
purely related to the fact \
 that it was Boeing's\
automation failure and the \
 lack of agency of the\
pilots to be able to engage \
 and kind of save solve\
that issue so there was an \
 airplane an mcas flight\
control software system \
 that was activating when\
there was a wrong kind of \
 angle of attack giving\
incorrect data so in no the \
 reality was that the\
plane was kind of straight \
 the re the reading of\
the sensor was thinking \
 that the node the\
nose was up so then \
 what it It was reacting\
to, it was continuously \
 pushing the nose of\
the airplane down. \
 And then the pilots\
couldn't overcome that. \
 They couldn't kind of change\
the angle of attack of the \
 angle of the airplane\
because it was continuously \
Timestamp 6 minutes pushing it down. And that\
was two problems. First, that \
 it was automated and that\
they couldn't take manual \
 control. And the second thing\
was that they had no training \
 on this. they had not been\
informed about the existence \
 of this system, which\
also meant that the pilots \
 didn't know what the issue\
that they were facing was. \
 So here this speaks to a\
double problem, right? One is \
 the problem of automating\
without giving human control, \
 but the other one is also\
the need for transparency \
 in these kinds of automated\
or semi-automated systems. \
 okay so maybe not because\
necessarily of these as \
 examples but because of\
examples like these more recent \
 iterations of the diagram\
that are the one-dimensional \
 diagram i showed you before\
try to make it into two \
 dimensions into a two\
-dimensional framework with the \
 goal of achieving safe\
reliable and trustworthy \
 interactions with ai systems\
where there's a high level \
 of human control but also\
a high level of automation \
 for instance a pacemaker\
or an airbag might require \
 low user control because of\
the need for rapid action \
 or the the fact that the the\
person might not have the \
 expertise on what to do\
that on how to react but a \
 bicycle or a piano or other\
creative activities should \
 remain under under this\
framework it says that they \
 should remain under human\
mastery if not for anything \
 else just because people\
actually enjoy doing them \
 and then this diagram\
mentions that there is a \
 perfect crux of control\
and automation and for \
 instance making better\
camera photos because of \
 the automated systems of\
exposure and focus but \
 the photo does still is\
made by a human pressing \
 the click or things like\
an elevator that can be \
 informed or smarter in\
a way but the the exit \
 of where the participant\
the user actually \
 goes to remains on the\
control of the human \
 but it's also the job of\
designers to prevent failures \
 from excessive automation\
like the airplanes examples \
 we we mentioned before as\
well as excessive human \
 control so things like we\
won't discuss this a lot but \
 things like managing your\
energy grid system is something \
 that would doesn't is not\
valuable in terms of it's \
 not something that humans\
can easily kind of grasp and \
 kind of control but the\
examples we mentioned also \
 show how it will be increasingly\
important to accurately \
 locate who is responsible\
when agency is distributed \
 in the system and control\
over an action is mediated \
 over time and space. So in\
a parallel case in March 18, \
 2018, a self-driving Uber\
car struck and killed a \
 pedestrian crossing her bike\
with her bike in the middle \
 of an Arizona roadway. At\
the steering wheel of this \
 autonomous vehicle was a\
safety driver, like a safety \
 driver was sitting there. And\
her job was to monitor the \
 car's systems and take over\
in case of an emergency. \
 Now, the safety driver\
now faces criminal charges \
 of manslaughter. So the\
devastating accident that \
 happened and killed the\
person actually brought the \
 question to the front that\
had only been hypothetical \
 until now. So if a\
driverless car hits somebody \
 who or what is it to\
blame so analyzing these \
 kinds of situations Madeleine\
Elish a scholar came \
 up with the concept of\
moral crumple zones that is \
 mentioned here also in the\
slide that describe how \
 responsibility for an\
action may be misattributed \
 to a human actor who had\
limited control of the \
 behavior of an automated or\
autonomous vehicle system \
 system, not only a vehicle,\
a system in general. \
 So the parallel that she's\
making here is that the \
 crumple zone in a car is\
decided to absorb the force \
 of impact in a crash.\
And in this case, this \
 crumple zone becomes a human\
that bears the brunt of \
 the moral and other\
implications that the autonomous \
 system might be kind of\
actually responsible for. \
 So why I'm bringing this\
example here is because these \
 problems of human AI\
interaction of how does a \
 human and a machine kind of\
interact and how does agency \
 and automation distribute\
over this kind of framework \
 we're saying actually\
intersects with very real \
 aspects of life like ethics\
and law studies, right? \
 It's not a hypothetical\
scenario we're describing \
 anymore, but it's actually,\
it has real implications. \
 Okay, but maybe to bring\
it down a notch because not \
 everything is high-stakes\
situations like self \
 -driving cars and airplane\
autopilot systems, similar \
Timestamp 11 minutes discussions on agency and\
automation are faced by \
 thousands of people daily\
when they decide to use or \
 they decide if and how to\
use generative AI systems. \
 And I will give you two\
recent examples of research \
 that are exactly unpacking\
this thinking process. \
 The first is about a study\
called To Use or Not to \
 Use, Impatience and\
Over-Reliance when using \
 generative AI productivity\
support tools. So what this \
 study is trying to do\
is trying to understand \
 when do people kind of decide\
to automate tools? When \
 do they decide to use\
automation tools like \
 generative AI? And the\
research questions are actually \
 two. Given the goal of\
maximizing productivity, \
 how good are people in making \
 decisions on when to\
use generative AI? \
 And then how do\
people decide when to \
 use or not to use\
generative AI tools? \
 And how did they examine?\
They achieved that by giving \
 people a task to do and then\
varying this latency and \
 the error rate of the\
simulated generative AI support \
 tool to see how users decide\
to make or fail optimal \
 decisions when deciding to\
rely on that tool or not. \
 And actually, it's pretty\
fun. That's why I'm \
 bringing this example as\
well to the course. The tool \
 that the people were asked\
to use was an image grid \
 as presented here with\
colors. So participants \
 were asked to fill in\
whatever they see a 4, they \
 would put the gray, wherever\
they would see a 1, they \
 would put a yellow, and\
so on or whatnot, to be \
 able to make this image\
that you see on the right. \
 So there were two tasks,\
there were two options. \
 You could do a manual fill,\
so you could go step by \
 step and kind of fill in\
the grid with the colors, \
 or you could use assisted\
fill with a generative \
 AI tool that kind of\
generated the first version of \
 the image, and then you\
would go and correct it. \
 And there were various\
conditions of latency, \
 like how long the support\
tool would take to \
 give the response, and\
how correct or not were \
Timestamp 13 minutes the answers that they\
were actually giving. \
 And they tested that\
with 508 participants. \
 So here is some example\
of the manual fill where \
 participants would go step\
by step and they would create \
 this duckling at the end\
of the process, whereas the \
 assisted fill then the\
first version of it was kind \
 of there has kind of a high\
error rate as you can see \
 because the the images are\
not necessarily that the \
 boxes are not necessarily\
correctly aligned and then \
 the participant would go\
and continue and correct any \
 mistakes so what they did\
is that they asked people \
 to do first the manual\
version then they would need \
 to kind of get the kind\
of indication of how much \
 latency or error rate they\
had and then they would have \
 another image where they\
would need to kind of make a \
 decision about whether they\
want to repeat that again \
 and what whether they\
would like to do that with \
 assisted fill or they would\
do that manually and the \
 very interesting things\
they found is that when the \
 assisted fill is either\
very high-performing in both \
 latency and error rate, or\
very low-performing, so if we \
 have very smart AI generative\
AI system or a very \
 dumb generative AI system,\
then the people make optimal \
 decisions, and they very\
clearly know when they \
 should be using it. But the\
problem happens when the \
 performance of AI becomes a bit\
more moderate. So especially \
 in conditions when you\
have high-performing AI, \
 but also in one condition\
but low-performing in \
 the other condition, then\
it becomes more ambiguous \
 so in cases where there's\
a smart but quite very \
 slow AI or a dumb but\
very fast AI so in this \
 case people tend to over\
rely on it rather than take \
 action by themselves\
and doing it manually \
 assisted so it kind of gives\
us an indication of how \
 people end up kind of\
over relying in some cases \
 and some type of tasks on\
the generative AI tools \
 The next kind of research\
project that I think is very \
 interesting that also has\
to do with the fact like \
 how do people use generative\
AI and how does that \
 relate to critical thinking\
is coming from a group in \
 mostly Microsoft, which is\
called the impact of generative \
 AI on critical thinking,\
self-reported reductions \
 in cognitive effort and\
confidence effects from a \
 survey of knowledge workers,\
which is a large title \
 basically to say that they\
surveyed a bunch of people. \
 that work with knowledge\
so people that mostly work \
 with computer systems computer\
scientists or other kind \
 of knowledge workers like\
this and they asked them \
 to tell to report back to\
with a survey to what extent \
 did they use kind of\
generative ai tools to support \
 their work and do they feel\
like the cognitive effort \
 and the confidence effects\
of that actually helped \
 so we had they had two\
research questions when \
 and how do knowledge\
workers perceive and the \
 inaction of critical\
thinking and when and why \
 do knowledge workers\
perceive decreased or \
 increased effort for\
critical thinking due to \
 generative AI they had a\
quite kind of intricate \
 research plan so they sent\
a survey and they asked \
 people to tell their uses\
of three of three different \
 usages of generative AI tools\
that could be any of the \
 tools that people are comfortable\
with and then they asked \
 them to talk about what\
factors task factors so what \
 kind of task were they're\
doing how confident they \
 were in that task and then\
assessed how critical thinking \
 was involved in that task so\
as they say here perceived \
 in action of critical\
thinking and perceived effort \
 in critical thinking and\
then they also did a part \
 of a survey where they talked\
about user factors like \
 how much they trust generative\
ai their gender the age \
 occupation and the tendency\
to reflect on work and they \
 analyzed this both\
quantitatively and qualitatively \
 they found that a higher\
confidence in generative \
 ai is confident is\
associated with less critical \
 thinking so the more\
confident people are in \
 generative ai that they're\
kind of tended they \
 They have the tendency to\
do less critical thinking, \
 even though the same\
people don't think that \
 there's a lot of effort\
to do critical thinking. \
 So that's the\
interesting part. Like, \
 even though they\
find it kind of less \
 effort to do so, they\
still do less of it. \
 And higher confidence is\
associated with more critical \
 thinking, even though that\
this is actually perceived \
 as more effort to do so.\
So this is actually a \
 very interesting finding\
in terms of how we design \
 systems that kind of support\
people to do critical \
 thinking, right? To reflect\
critically on the works that \
 they're doing, even when\
they're perceiving that \
 this is kind of something\
like secondary or if not \
 secondary, something too easy\
to actually bother to do. \
 and the the suggestions\
they come here is the design \
 strategy should focus on\
balancing the these two \
 aspects so ai tools should\
incorporate feedback mechanisms \
 that help users understand\
the reliability of ai \
 outputs and when to trust\
the ai when to apply the \
 critical skills and they can\
also enhance the awareness \
 of opportunities of critical\
thinking opportunities \
 telling them when to\
can forgo for it for \
 things that are important\
or secondary or where \
 they should actually\
spend more effort to \
 it for things that are\
actually more crucial. \
 And the reason I'm bringing\
these two studies is besides \
 the fact that they have\
very interesting findings, \
 it's because they also\
demonstrate how HCI research \
 and methods like the user\
testing and surveys and \
 interviews actually get\
implemented in research \
 in HCI. So I find that\
is an interesting kind of \
 double example of both\
interesting findings that relate \
Timestamp 19 minutes to things that you can\
learn from, but also the \
 methodological contributions\
that they're having \
 in terms of how you can\
evaluate systems like this. \
\
 Hi everyone and welcome\
to the second part of \
 Human Centered Values in\
the Design of AI Systems, \
 the second video of week\
eight. Now this video \
 we're going to talk\
about the concept of \
 fairness and how that\
relates to AI systems. \
 So with the spread of\
AI in different types of \
 applications, safety\
and fairness have become \
 significant issue for\
researchers and engineers. \
 Machine learning and AI\
are used in courts to \
 assess the probability\
of a defendant recommits \
 a crime we're going to\
talk about that a bit \
 more it is used in medical\
fields and childhood \
 welfare systems and\
in autonomous vehicles \
 so fairness is something\
that is very crucial and \
 central into this so in\
the context of decision \
 making uh so ai in\
supporting decision making \
 fairness is the absence of\
any prejudice or favoritism \
 towards an individual\
or a group based on \
 their inherent or acquired\
characteristics So \
 basically, an unfair algorithm\
is one whose decisions \
 are skewed towards a\
particular group of people. \
 And COMPASS is one of the\
first examples that came out \
 that is an exemplar of an\
unfair system, a discriminatory \
 kind of system where AI\
has been used and machine \
 learning has been used.\
So COMPASS is a tool used \
 by courts, or at least used\
to be used by courts in the \
 United States, to make pre\
-trial detention and release \
 decisions basically when\
people kind of are arrested \
 then this tool would help\
judges to decide whether \
 the person the defendant\
should be staying in detention \
 or should they be released\
and what's the possibility \
 of them kind of re\
committing a crime so the the \
 software which is called\
compass which stands for \
 correctional offender management\
profiling for alternative \
 sanctions measures the risk\
of a person to recommit \
 another crime and the judges\
used to use that to decide \
 whether to keep them in\
prison or to let them go on \
 bail for example the problem\
was that with a very kind \
 of innovative investigation\
into algorithms one of \
 the first one that came out\
in this type from propublica \
 they found that there's\
have clear bias towards \
 african-americans and compass\
was way more likely to have \
 higher false positive\
rates for african-american \
 offenders than caucasian\
offenders enforcing predicting \
 them that they are going to\
be higher risk of recommitting \
 a crime uh in compared\
in comparison to their \
 caucasian kind of other\
people so and then also when \
 compared to non-human non\
-expert human judgment it was \
 discovered not to be any\
better than a normal human so \
 it also didn't seem to be\
able to have some kind of \
 unique possibilities prediction\
possibilities that they \
 were meant to have here you\
see for instance two people \
 the one was classified as\
low risk and high risk and \
 then explaining whether\
that the fact that the one \
 on the on the right was\
subsequent offenses had none \
 whereas the other one had\
subsequent offenses three \
 three subsequent drug possession\
charges so it was actually \
 clearly biased towards a\
subset of the population \
 and that's not the only\
example there is out there \
 it says it's one of\
the first ones that was \
 kind of dominant but there\
are many of them that \
 appear and i'm sure you\
know some of them as well. \
 Here is an example of\
facial recognition software \
 in digital cameras that\
over predicts Asians \
 as blinking as you can\
see here in the image. So \
 this is another type\
of discrimination where \
 because the training data\
has been used and has been \
 collected by one sample\
of the population then \
 it obviously is skewed\
towards that population. \
 The point is that we should\
think responsibly and \
 recognize that the application\
of these tools and the \
Timestamp 4 minutes subsequent decisions actually\
affect people's lives and \
 therefore considering\
fairness constraints is a \
 crucial task when designing\
and engineering these types \
 of tools so that's important\
for you for human ai \
 interaction and that's important\
for you as engineers as \
 well something similar was\
founded by Joy Buolamwini \
 where she called at that\
point she was she called \
 like algorithmic bias\
as the coded gaze where \
 she's the founder of\
the algorithmic justice \
 league and has done\
amazing work since her I \
 think it was her master\
thesis and later PhD to \
 kind of unpack the hidden\
biases that our algorithms \
 kind of contain so I\
suggest you go look at the \
 supplementary material for a\
very nice presentation of her \
 work but i mean in summary\
what happened was that she \
 was using computer vision\
algorithms like the out-of \
 -the-box ones in order to be\
able to to make her i think \
 the project was to make\
a robot more um a social \
 robot like a human typical\
human computer interaction \
 project with a social robot\
trying to interact with \
 somebody but the camera and\
the computer vision algorithm \
 was actually not recognizing\
her because she's darker \
 skinned until she put a\
white mask so that kind of \
 got her into the discussion\
and then the deep \
 investigation what happens when\
algorithms are actually biased \
 towards some sort of\
population against the other \
 typically until that point\
which was probably around \
 2016 like the majority of\
um of research around bias \
 and harms of algorithmic\
systems were about allocated \
 farm harms like the one\
that we talked about in the \
 beginning like the compass\
kind of system where it's \
 about when a system does this\
has decision making power \
 and then withhold certain\
groups from an opportunity \
 or a resource and as kate\
Crawford mentions in her \
 keynote like a lot of research\
has been done towards how \
 we can make decision-making\
more transparent or more \
 or less biased towards some\
populations over others \
 but there's also another\
type of representation of \
 harm in information systems\
which is like representational \
 so this occurs when systems\
reinforce the subordination \
 of some groups are along\
some lines of identity \
 or race like class or gender\
or something like this. \
 So in this case, allocative\
harms, as I said, have \
 received a lot of attention\
because their effects \
 are immediate and it's\
about decision making. It's \
 about getting a loan or\
not. It's about getting, \
 being assessed by a judge\
or not in some way. And \
 they're easier to formalize\
and study in computer \
 science and as well as in\
economics, right? Because \
 it's about resource sharing.\
But representational \
 harms have long term\
effects and they're not easy \
 to formally characterize\
and they're very much \
 dependent on the time and\
space of when we're talking. \
 But as machine\
learning has become \
 part of how we make\
sense in the world, \
 so through technologies\
like how we search, how \
 we translate, the voice\
assistance, representational \
 harms will leave an\
imprint on our culture, \
 as Kate Crawford mentions,\
and will influence \
 identity formation and\
stereotype perpetuation. \
 And I'll give some\
examples of how that is. \
 Like, for example, \
 Joey Boulamini's\
example is part of that. \
 For example, Boulamini's\
example of shades of \
 gray is one part of those\
representational harms. \
 but I wanted to bring your\
attention to this kind of \
 more broader scoped view of\
how bias kind of can perpetuate \
 within traditional deep\
learning systems and then \
 we're going to talk about\
them in terms of machine \
 learning but a lot of these\
things that were discussed now \
 are evident also in the\
generative AI technologies \
 the issue is that their\
solutions for fairness in this \
 case and bias mitigation\
might be kind of different. So \
 we'll start with this and then\
hopefully we can generalize \
 a little bit more for\
more generative AI models. \
 So Hures and Kutag made a\
framework of sources of harm \
 throughout the machine\
learning lifecycle and this is \
 something that I think is\
very useful because it kind \
 of helps us pinpoint where\
in our process perhaps we \
 should be more aware of what\
we're doing and they can \
 they divide the the machine\
learning life cycle in two \
 parts the data generation\
which is a top part of this \
 diagram you see and the model\
building and implementation \
 which is the bottom part\
so i'm not going to talk \
 through all of this model\
you have this as a as a core \
 reading for this week but\
i'm going to bring out some \
 examples and some key parts\
of of of of this diagram \
 so the first example they're\
bringing and of bias that \
 there's in the machine learning\
cycle is historical bias \
 so historical bias is\
interesting because it represents \
 that even if data is\
perfectly measured and samples \
 and it might even represent\
the current situation of \
 the world it can still\
inflict harm on a population \
 because it involves\
representational harms like for \
 instance as we talked about\
before reinforcing a stereotype \
 to a particular group as\
an example that is very \
 typical and it's also in yours\
and your suggested readings \
 that we have word embeddings\
where we have vector \
 represented where word embeddings\
are vector representations \
 that encode semantic\
meaning and obviously as you \
 obviously know that they\
are widely used in NLP \
 application but research has\
shown that because and word \
 embeddings have learned from\
large corpora of text like \
 Wikipedia or web pages or\
Google News they they reflect \
 the real-world biases about\
women and ethnic my or \
 minorities so for instance\
there are some occupations that \
 are traditionally more\
gendered like nurse or engineer \
 so in in these kind of models\
they're highly associated \
 with words that represent\
women or men respectively \
 so that's a bias that\
exists in our in our in our \
 culture more broadly and\
that's something that this is \
 kind of kind of translates\
into the machine that still \
 kind of perpetuates these\
kinds of stereotypes types. \
 The second type of bias\
that they talk about is \
 representation bias. And in\
this case, we talk about when \
 the development of the sample\
you're using for the data \
 set represents only some\
part of the population and \
 subsequently fails to\
generalize for the other, for \
 other parts of the population.\
And that can happen in \
 many ways, like defining,\
when defining the target \
 population it doesn't reflect\
the whole of it when defining \
 the target population it\
contains underrepresented \
 groups for instance like a\
subset of of adults between \
 18 and 30 of 18 and 60\
might include pregnant woman \
 but that might be a very\
small percentage of um of that \
 population which kind of\
be is underrepresented when \
 we're talking about generalizing\
that kind of subgroup \
 and then it's also about\
sampling from the target \
 population when the sampling\
method is limited or uneven \
 as an example which i think\
is also part of your your \
 readings is image net which\
is a large there's a very \
 very used image data set\
consisting of 102 1.2 million \
 labeled images and it's\
intended to be used widely \
 like to contain all natural\
images however it doesn't \
 sample evenly right like\
the majority of the images \
 are from north american or\
northern or western europe \
 with only like one or two\
percent of the images coming \
 from places like china or\
india respectively so that \
 research has shown that the\
when you when used these \
 models to classify images\
concerning certain objects or \
 people the the specific\
research i'm referring to \
 talks about what does a bride\
look like what does a groom \
 look like what as a wedding\
look like then when the \
 images come from underrepresented\
countries then it \
 doesn't it doesn't get\
recognized as such because it's \
 very much centered on a\
western kind of imagery context \
 another part is a mother\
kind of bias is like the \
 measurement bias when occurs\
when choosing collecting or \
 computing features and\
labels to use in a prediction \
 problem so in this case is\
like the compass example \
 where the models for these\
things for them the data for \
 the models often include\
a proxy such as arrest in \
 this case in the compass\
model to measure crime or to \
Timestamp 13 minutes measure an underlying notion\
of riskiness so we cannot \
 directly measure riskiness\
so we use a proxy which is \
 previous arrest in order\
to make that decision but \
 because in this case for\
instance minority communities \
 are more highly policed then\
they're more likely to be \
 arrested therefore this proxy\
might misrepresent might \
 have measurement bias in\
terms of how their underlying \
 notion of riskiness so this\
is a kind of an important \
 thing to notice about when\
you're using proxies in \
 in data collection \
 now the last thing i i will\
talk about and the rest \
 i think you should kind\
of explore a little bit in \
 the readings in the\
suggested readings is about \
 learning bias and this case\
is learning bias occurs when \
 modeling choices amplify\
performance disparities \
 across different examples\
in the data and that's \
 something we're going to\
also kind of refer to next \
 week when we talk about\
sustainability of our models \
Timestamp 14 minutes and here i want to bring\
that some studies are showing \
 how prioritizing compact\
models for instance with \
 methods such as pruning\
they can amplify the \
 disparities between data with\
underrepresented attributes \
 and this happens because\
given the more limited \
 capacity the model learns\
to preserve information with \
 the most frequent features\
which is not necessarily \
 the ones that are the\
underrepresented attributes \
 finally this is a has been\
quite grim so far like \
 that there's a lot of places\
as you can see where we \
 where models can be um\
bias and bring harm to the \
 world but the point is not\
kind of to uh scare you away \
 from doing this more of to\
inform you of the different \
 kind of considerations\
you have to have in uh \
 when when you're developing\
and designing ai systems \
 and two ways that have been\
kind of emblematic in a \
 way to solving these kinds\
of biases or at least \
 addressing them to an\
extent would be to increase \
 transparency where transparency\
in AI systems means that \
 they should not operate\
as black boxes instead the \
 argument is that users\
should have insight into the \
 AI's reasoning process and\
we've talked a little bit \
 about that in the class\
when we were talking about \
 user participation in\
modeling and the second thing \
 where we're talking about\
explainability which refers \
 to an ability of an ai\
system to justify their \
 outputs in the way that\
humans can understand which we \
 also brought some examples\
of that in participation \
 in the participation\
week where we showed how \
 models can actually\
explain their decision \
 making in order to to allow\
for more fair decisions \
 or at least for more\
transparent decisions \
 okay so this has been the\
class on automation agency \
Timestamp 16 minutes and fairness hopefully\
you have a lot to think \
 about there's a lot of\
additional readings in this it's \
 more theoretical it's\
not very hands-on but the \
 point of this is to help\
you kind of think how and \
 reflect on how the choices\
you make while designing \
 and the choices of make\
while developing kind of \
 reflects back to the population\
that you're targeting. \
 Thank you. }