{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0  Hi everyone and welcome to\
the lecture on evaluation \
 for the first one of the\
two weeks of lectures \
 that will look at different\
kinds of evaluations. \
 So how can we make\
sure that our systems \
 are doing what we\
want to be doing? \
 So, so far within\
the lectures as well \
 as the SGTs and LGTs\
we've been going \
 through this double\
diamond process. \
 starting with just trying to\
understand what the problem \
 is what the users think\
then defining it down to a \
 specific design brief and\
then more recently really \
 starting to ideate and play\
and prototype with some of \
 the examples now we're coming\
to the end of of the double \
 diamond where we might be\
starting to look at how do \
 we test how do we evaluate\
whether the prototypes that \
 you've built are actually\
useful and you'll see that \
 these arrows that kind of\
go back into you test and \
 then you usually come back\
to ideate, then you have to \
 re-prolotype because\
you've discovered something \
 interesting. I expect that that\
is what's going to be happening \
 as well. So it's not, as\
always, it's not a linear \
 process. It's something\
where you might cycle through \
 individual places or maybe\
even go back to redefining \
 your problem, although\
that's probably not going \
 to happen for you within\
the context of this course. \
 So as I said, this is the\
first of the two weeks \
 where we will be looking at\
different kinds of evaluation \
 techniques that you could\
use for your designs. \
 And the general approach\
that we will want you to use \
 as always is that really\
evaluation methods should be \
 thought about as a set of\
tools that you have at your \
 disposal and which one you\
choose is really dependent \
 on the kind of questions\
or assumptions that you're \
 trying to solve. So we'll be\
talking about how different \
 methods might look depending\
on your stage of the \
 design or the types of\
questions that you're asking so \
 across all of these you might\
be asking why to do evaluation \
 testing it's very much to\
check that the specific \
 aspects of user experience\
that you're interested in \
 are considered in the design\
and are implemented well \
 in the design you might be\
testing your conceptual models \
 you might be testing some\
of early prototypes you \
 might be trying to compare\
your system to other products \
 or just double check if\
it actually does the work \
 that you want it to do so\
does it increase critical \
 thinking when people use\
it for example there's some \
 variation around where you\
look at it it might be natural \
 settings so meaning you would\
deploy as part of a class \
 maybe next year's class you\
might be exploring it in \
 the wild as in you just\
open it up on on amazon or \
 apple and you will see how\
people use your app. You might \
 be thinking about labs or\
specific lab arrangements. \
 And also you might be\
thinking about when \
 throughout the design you\
deploy that testing. And \
 we've already done that,\
as you might remember, \
 a couple of times\
throughout the LGTs, where \
 we've asked you to explain\
what you've done to \
 other people. That has\
been part of evaluation, \
 although a very informal\
and interesting one. \
 So in the next couple of\
minutes we will go through \
 this idea of how does a\
map look like of the types \
 of methods that you might\
want to know about and \
 that you might want to be\
using. Each of these has \
 a specific purpose, they\
might be used in specific \
 situations and we'll talk\
a little bit about what \
 that looks like and how do\
you make sense of this map. \
 We will however focus\
only on a few of these \
 methods in detail just\
because we don't have time and \
 I don't want to turn this\
into another two-hour video \
 with a bunch of reading\
theory on the side. So \
 what are the kinds of methods\
that we could look at? \
 So one potential way of\
starting to map out how these \
 tools look like, how your\
evaluation tools look \
 like, is to thinking about\
whether or not you involve \
 your target users. So in\
your case probably students \
 who are engaging with\
critical thinking for example. \
 One option is to think\
about approaches that \
 involve experts which\
might be easier to get or \
 you might rely on a\
lot of expertise that \
 they might be bringing.\
The other big type of \
 studies is the studies\
that actually do involve \
 your target population\
in one way or another. \
 So just to build up your\
vocabulary some of the methods \
 that include experts are\
based around heuristics \
 evaluation. So you might be\
thinking back to Nielsen's 10 \
 heuristics and kind of thinking\
about how you get experts \
 to engage with your\
system according to these \
 heuristics. And that's something\
we'll talk about a little \
 bit later. You might have\
some models about how your \
 system should behave, and\
then you could be running \
 evaluations against that. You\
might be analyzing what the \
 system does. You're not\
really involving the users, \
 but you're analyzing the traces\
of what the users do that \
 helps you understand and\
then I think cognitive \
 walkthrough we've mentioned\
earlier in the course where you \
 would have a specific way\
of getting an expert to step \
 through the the process\
of your system and you're \
 again trying to understand\
how and when and where your \
 design potentially breaks on\
the other hand when you have \
 users the useful differentiation\
is around where and \
 how you engagement so this\
could be in the lab or any \
 sort of controlled setting\
where you'll be asking users \
 to do things that they might\
not be doing naturally. \
 So you're asking them to do\
controlled tasks and then \
 perhaps observe differences\
between how they engage \
 with these specifically\
defined tasks or the tools that \
 you provide them. You could\
think about deploying these \
 in the field, so that means\
deploying your prototypes \
 in a relatively messy real\
-world context where they \
 would end up being used. So\
in your case, it would be \
 about taking a system and\
deploying it with people who \
 are actually trying to study\
for an exam, for example. \
 And finally, you\
could also be thinking \
 about doing living laboratories \
Timestamp 6 minutes where you're essentially\
putting participants into \
 instrumented environments\
for long periods of time, but \
 still with some control and\
data collection, which I \
 think is going to be less\
common, especially for the types \
 of problems that we're\
talking about. Finally, you \
 could also obviously do\
surveys where you, for example, \
 try and reach out to every\
single student within \
 KINGS and you ask them\
something about how they \
 either use an existing\
system, if you were, for \
 example, trying to evaluate\
how beautifully designed \
 Keats is, or if you're\
trying to understand \
 something about their\
processes and the challenges \
 and you're trying to\
evaluate the challenges that \
 they face, for example,\
with critical thinking. \
 So, when we start thinking\
about these in more detail, \
 again, just to build up\
vocabulary for you, within \
 the lab studies, we might\
be talking about think \
 -aloud protocol, where you\
get a user to go through your \
 system and discuss how and\
when this works. Sorry, \
 I'm just realizing my son\
is marginally in the way. \
 You might also be able\
to engage in experiments, \
 which is something that\
we'll spend a lot of time \
 talking about. And you might\
also be looking at a specific \
 type of engagement within\
a lab that looks at \
 usability evaluation, where\
you're not really interested \
 in the effects of the\
system, but you're really \
 interested in understanding\
how someone will go \
 through the system and are\
there any barriers to use. \
 In terms of the field studies, \
 there are technology probes, \
 which we'll discuss next week. \
 You could be looking at\
deployment of prototypes \
 and understanding how\
these end up being \
 used and appropriated,\
as well as A-B testing, \
 which is essentially a\
field study experiment or \
 a particular kind of\
experiment that many of \
 the big tech companies\
are running right now. \
 So if we put this all together,\
you can see that really \
 there's a large number of\
different things, and we \
Timestamp 8 minutes haven't, frankly, covered\
everything, but there's a \
 large number of different\
tools, each of which has \
 specific purposes and specific\
reasons for its existence. \
 So it answers particular\
kinds of questions pretty \
 well, and it also has some\
limitations, so it doesn't \
 answer different kinds of\
questions at all, possibly. \
 So what we'll be doing\
over these two weeks is \
 really trying to focus mostly\
on the methods that are \
 often done a little bit\
earlier in the process, in the \
 sense that they might be giving\
you formative information \
 whether the design is\
on the right trajectory. \
 So you're often using these\
methods to sense check \
 and observe before you might\
commit yourself to your \
 final push or deployment,\
or it might be just after \
 you've deployed and you\
really want to understand \
 whether the system has a\
chance of having the effects \
 that you want it to have.\
So, for example, you could \
 imagine you're designing a\
new version of an Instagram \
 interface or some other\
critical thinking tool, as \
Timestamp 9 minutes you do in your LGTs, and\
you might do a heuristic \
 evaluation on semi-interactive\
sketches to just double \
 -check whether your user\
interface is understandable \
 for people. Then you might\
follow by a think-aloud \
 prototype on a, sorry, a\
think-aloud protocol that \
 you would deploy on a\
fully fledged version of a \
 clickable prototype that\
you've either bytecoded very \
 quickly or you've done in\
Envision or Figma and if \
 everyone likes this you might\
have a rough experimental \
 version that you test out\
within a lab study as a \
 small experiment to see\
whether the processes whether \
 the AI scaffolding that\
you're providing to users is \
 working the right way and\
potentially eventually send \
 this out as a technology\
probe where people actually \
 try and use it over a\
period of a week or two in \
 similar ways that an MVP\
might be used in a startup. \
 So across all of these, as\
you see, there are different \
 types of questions and\
layers of questions that \
 get emphasised. And what\
we'll be doing in the rest \
 of this week is to focus\
on about half of these \
 methods and then fill out\
the rest in the week after. \
 So, by the end of the next\
week, you should be able \
 to start thinking about these\
methods as being positioned \
 across these two or three\
different dimensions. \
 How abstract or concrete\
these are so are you \
 abstracting out something\
about an interaction that you \
 want to test but it's not\
really looking at what people \
 will actually do with the\
system or how concrete \
 are you asking about the\
things that people actually \
 do with your system how\
obtrusive is it so do you \
 need to get people into\
your lab or do you ask them \
 to fill out some sort of\
survey questions outside \
 as opposed to how unobtrusive\
where you might be just \
 tracking what users do\
generally And then we will \
 be talking about the types\
of goals that you might \
 have. Are you more interested\
in realistic use? Are \
 you more interested in\
generalizability? Are you more \
 interested in precision of\
kind of unpacking something \
 about, for example, the\
psychological effects? \
 So we'll keep on returning\
to this little diagram, \
 which probably doesn't\
make too much sense to you \
 right now. But I think it's\
a helpful way of always \
 sense-checking, are you\
able to think about the \
 methods that we'll be\
talking about in these terms? \
 So, what's the plan for today? \
 I really want us to\
focus on things that you \
 can apply directly\
within your LGT and SGT. \
 That's coming up. So that's\
why we'll be talking a \
 little bit about heuristic\
evaluation and then a little \
 bit more about ThinkCloud\
studies and protocols, because \
 I think that's what will\
make sense for you to start \
 doing during the LGT. We\
will then also spend a lot of \
 time thinking about what\
is the theory behind \
 experimentation? What does it\
actually mean to experiment? Why \
 do we do it? Why do we care\
about understanding the \
 causes and unpacking whether\
your system actually improves, \
 for example, critical\
thinking or something else? \
 And that will be reasonably\
complicated, and we'll \
 spend quite a bit of time\
on this, just because I \
 think that's one of the\
pieces that are really hard \
 to understand just by\
reading a website. If I send \
 you to a Nielsen's\
heuristic evaluation page, \
 within 10 minutes you'll\
have a decent idea of how to \
 do it. If I send you to\
a page about experiments, \
 it's going to be much\
harder to pick up. \
 And both of these things\
are then the grounding \
 for us to start thinking\
about the follow-up studies, \
 which will be field\
studies really thinking \
 about technology probes\
and so on, which are \
 particularly helpful within\
generative AI systems. And \
 then red teaming methods\
that I was talking about, \
 which is another way of\
kind of sense checking \
 and working either with\
experts or your users to \
 ensure that your system\
has a lower likelihood of \
 breaking in ways that are\
particularly difficult. \
 All right, so\
let's get started. \
 Okay, so let's get\
started. with the two \
 lab study type\
evaluations, the heuristic \
 evaluation and think\
-a-lot protocol. \
 So in heuristic evaluation, \
 experts guided by a set\
of usability principles \
 that we've talked about\
as the heuristics, \
 evaluate whether user\
interface elements, such \
 as dialogue boxes or\
menus or navigation \
 structure or your chat\
boxes, online help, so on, \
 conform to tried and\
tested principles. \
 So these heuristics\
closely resemble high \
 -level design principles,\
so making designs \
Timestamp 14 minutes consistent, reducing\
memory load, and so on, \
 making sure that you're\
really using terms that users \
 understand that the mental\
models are consistent, \
 and so on. So as you might\
remember from some of the \
 early weeks, the original\
set of heuristics for HCI \
 evaluation was developed by\
Nielsen and his colleagues, \
 who derived them empirically\
from a large number of \
 usability problems. And\
then the revised version of \
 these heuristics is listed\
in the next slide and that's \
 what we've been talking\
about in the earlier weeks. \
 So when you think about\
heuristic evaluation it \
 is something that's\
conducted by experts who \
 understand these heuristics\
and it really just takes \
 a look at your interface\
and tries to verify whether \
 there are some problems.\
So the example here \
 is we have text that is\
white and kind of overlaps \
 with the product images\
and it makes it all \
 confusing and complicated\
and probably hard to rate. \
 So you should now be able\
to imagine quite easily what \
 would it mean to go through\
a system with the focus \
 on, for example, user control\
and freedom and really \
 start looking for the\
places where the design that \
 someone has done or that\
you have done breaks that \
 kind of heuristic. So it\
might be that you get the user \
 into a state where they have\
to finish an interaction \
 that might take five\
minutes and they have no way \
 of coming back out of it.\
That would be an example \
 of a problem with that\
particular kind of heuristic. \
 So how does this actually\
look like if you're trying \
 to run it? The playbook is\
that you need to go and recruit \
 a set of experts, so\
people who understand what \
 these heuristics are and have\
ideally some experience with \
 design and designing systems\
then you need to focus \
 them on what they're supposed\
to do so often you will \
 be doing prepared scripts\
and guides to ensure that \
 everyone kind of understands\
enough about the user task \
Timestamp 16 minutes the specific use task that\
you have in mind and that \
 you're asking them all to focus\
on the same set of heuristics \
 for example or the same\
part support of the system. \
 Then there's something about\
what the experts actually \
 do. Often they have to\
take at least two passes \
 through the interface. The\
first one is just to get a feel \
 for how the interaction\
works and what the product \
 does, and then the second\
pass is really getting them to \
 focus on specific elements\
and follow your protocol. \
 And you're identifying\
these usability \
 problems over time\
in an iterative \
 way as you get that\
data from experts. \
 And then, in the end,\
obviously, you provide an \
 overall summary of how the\
experts engage with the \
 system, what are the issues and\
what are the recommendations \
 that they came up with.\
So, relatively simple, \
 it's kind of a very high level, \
 well, high level, it's a\
very surface level thing \
 that really tries to make\
sure that regardless of \
 what the system does behind\
the scenes or how well \
 it does or does not work,\
at least you're capturing \
 some of these heuristics\
and you often will \
 see it as something\
that's easier to recruit, \
 especially if, for example,\
you have these experts within \
 your team were ready,\
it's often that kind of \
 a first cheap low-cost\
method for you to engage with \
 an application that you've\
developed before you \
 have to go out and try\
and recruit participants. \
 So the think-aloud method\
is you could imagine a \
 flipped side of the coin\
when you're trying to really \
 engage with participants\
rather than experts and you're \
 trying to get a sense of\
how they experience the \
 system that you've designed\
so the definition is that in \
 the thinking aloud test\
you're really asking the \
 participants to use the system\
and you might actually be \
 giving them specific tasks\
of what they're supposed \
 to do so you know take\
this lecture file upload it \
 here then try to ask questions\
that go in this direction \
 and so on so they'll still\
get some sort of script \
 but what you're asking them\
to do is provide you with \
 a running commentary,\
verbalizing in an ongoing way, \
 what is it that they're\
thinking about as they go \
 through the interface. So\
it's about, oh, this sounds \
 a little boring, and I don't\
understand this. And now \
 I'm thinking about what\
should I type in here. So \
 let me let me try and type\
in this and so on. So this \
 will be one of the tasks\
that you'll be asked to do. \
 You'll be asking\
other people to do \
 on your systems in\
the upcoming LGTs. \
 So what's what's happening\
in practice is that you're \
 really asking users to talk\
while they're performing \
 tasks those tasks should be\
something that you're really \
 interested in so they'll\
probably be tapping into \
 some of the core features that\
you have and for the users \
 it's slightly unusual\
because you have to verbalize \
 what's going on through\
your head as you're engaging \
 but what you as the designer\
really want to get is what \
 is it that they're thinking\
what is it they're trying \
 to do which might not\
often be obvious. If, for \
 example, a user stops and is\
not really engaging with your \
 system because they're\
trying to figure out what to \
 say or what to write, you\
wouldn't normally know if \
 they're confused or if they're\
just thinking quite hard. \
 You want to hear any\
questions that arise as they \
 work. And also, what is it\
that they're reading? Like, \
 which parts of the system\
are they actually engaging \
 with? So, to really kind\
of nail that down, you need \
 to know what users are\
thinking in this type of \
 method, rather than just\
observing, having a little \
 screencast recording, for\
example, of what they're doing. \
 And that's what makes the\
method quite powerful. \
 So, how could you\
do this practically? \
Timestamp 20 minutes You kind of sit there with the \
 user, as this amazing\
diagram shows. \
 You might have evil\
thoughts, like, oh no, that's \
 not what you're supposed\
to do. Oh my god, how can \
 you not understand? But\
you're supposed to be \
 really quiet. The only\
things that you're allowed to \
 kind of say is, tell me\
what you're thinking. \
 You're not supposed to answer\
their questions. You're \
 just trying to elicit\
their thought process as if \
 they were engaging with\
the system on their own. \
 But you want to make sure\
that they're verbalizing \
 in an ongoing way. So\
this part of only help on \
 things that you have pre\
-decided is really important. \
 And you need to keep track\
of what you were helping \
 people with. So it's\
not a system about how \
 someone can use your system\
if they have an expert who \
 guides them through it.\
It's really you trying to \
 get a sense of how people\
would engage with the \
 system on their own, but\
you get all this additional \
 layer of information that\
they capture by talking. \
 So what you want to do is\
you want to record what's \
 happening, as well as do some\
good notes throughout, so \
 we'll have to figure out\
how to do that at the LGTs, \
 so that you can really get\
a good sense of what is it \
 that was going on for them,\
so you'll probably want \
 to capture the screen and\
you might want to, you know, \
 see, have some watch, but\
I don't think that's too \
 necessary for our tasks,\
apart from understanding how \
 long it takes people to\
go through the individual \
 things you're asking them\
to do, as well as you want \
 to record audio and video\
and event blogs and so on. \
 So really have a good\
capture of what's going on \
 and how the participant has\
engaged with your system. \
 So let me just throw this\
diagram again at you and \
 show how both of the things\
that we've talked about so \
 far have been about these\
lab experiments. And what \
 we were trying to do is\
really get at some precision \
 of types of questions that\
we're interested in. So in \
 both cases, the heuristic\
evaluation was really looking \
 at answering specific\
questions about whether experts \
 think that our design breaks\
some established rules \
 that are kind of instantiated\
within these heuristics. \
 And within the think-aloud\
protocol, we were really \
 interested in what is it\
precisely that goes through \
 people's heads as they\
engage with a particular \
 tasks that we've set out for\
them in a place where they \
 come to us and we need to\
be there with them, whether \
 online or remote. And we're\
being quite obstructive, \
 We're trying to get them to\
spell out exactly or talk \
 aloud exactly about what's\
going on in their head. \
 So it's not particularly\
realistic. It's not what \
 people would be doing. But\
what we're buying by a lack \
 of realism is that we're\
really able to get precisely \
 at the types of questions\
that we are interested in. \
 All right, let's\
now switch gears \
 and start thinking\
about experiments. \
 The two methods that we've\
talked about so far are \
 really just ways of collecting\
patterns of interest. \
 So, for example, just\
because an expert says that \
 this button will confuse\
users and force them to \
 create errors, it doesn't\
mean that we've proven that \
 that observation is actually\
true or that changing \
 that button will fix anything.\
Although we might trust \
 their expertise and trust\
kind of the heuristic \
 patterns that are already\
embedded in that evaluation \
 method, and think that\
it might be quite likely. \
 Similarly, if we notice\
that three users out \
 of five in our think\
-aloud protocol really \
 loved our systems and\
the other two haven't, \
 and these three were\
also wearing glasses, \
 that might not necessarily\
mean that glasses \
 are an important predictor\
of our system being \
 successful and that we\
have to kind of force \
 everyone who is to use our\
system to wear glasses. \
 So experimentation in\
general is really just a set \
 of tools and approaches\
to help us make causal \
 inferences. that is increase\
our likelihood that we can \
Timestamp 24 minutes control the outcome of\
situations or know that if we \
 change something, what\
will happen afterwards. So \
 for example, it's something\
that would allow us to \
 have trust in phrases such\
as, if we change that button \
 this way, then 30% fewer\
users will drop out of \
 our onboarding funnel. So\
let's have a look at what \
 the common problems are and\
how should we think about \
 these, how should we think\
about these approaches? \
 So this mantra that you've\
probably heard, correlation \
 is not causation, is the\
key reason for why we have \
 to do experiments and why\
experiments are relatively \
 tricky to set up. So a\
famous example is that if \
 you look at these two graphs,\
we might see that as ice \
 creams go, sales go up,\
so do shark attacks. So we \
 might hypothesize that\
this is causal, that sharks \
 are attracted to the ice\
cream and therefore there's \
 an increase in shark attacks\
on people, of course, \
 that would be making a wrong\
conclusion. You might make \
 the same point about sunburn\
and ice cream. It seems \
 that every time I eat ice\
cream, I get sunburned. \
 Or this XKCD comics where\
someone is standing on a \
 chair holding a pineapple\
because it appears to make \
 their mobile signal better.\
But is it really? So this \
 notion of just because two\
things correlate with each \
 other, happen next to each\
other, or just after each \
 other doesn't mean that\
they're causally related. \
 Experiments are ways of\
trying to separate out these \
 kind of accidental\
correlations where two things \
 cluster from causal correlations.\
So maybe it is exactly \
 ice cream sales that drive\
shark attacks because \
 there's more people in the\
water which brings sharks \
 closer and therefore we get\
more attacks. We don't know. \
 And experiments are the\
ways of trying to unpack \
 that if-something-then\
-something-else types of claims. \
Timestamp 26 minutes So, enough of the\
motivations and the problems. \
 Let's start looking at\
what experiments are, \
 and let's start doing that\
by looking at definitions, \
 which can be often a\
nice starting point. \
 And as you will probably\
know, experiments and this \
 approach to cause identification\
is essentially a key \
 part of what you would call\
a traditional scientific \
 method. So in those places\
you start by stating a clear \
 testable hypothesis. So a\
hypothesis about if something \
 happens then these\
other things will happen \
 afterwards. By testable we mean\
that the hypothesis must be \
 quantifiable and measurable.\
So you have to be able \
 to say if this happens then\
this amount of change will \
 happen. And the thing that\
we're trying to really \
 measure is the cost. So the\
effect of, if I shift this \
 starting point, then something\
else will shift later. \
 And experiments are\
essentially a way of \
 trying to get at that\
cost. So let's have \
Timestamp 27 minutes a look at how that\
works in practice. \
 So what we're going to do\
as a little toy example is \
 to start with this relatively\
simple hypothesis that \
 we might want to test, and\
that is that the Mac OS \
 menu bar, which is anchored\
to the top of the screen for \
 those who don't have Macs,\
is faster to access for \
 users than a windows menu\
bar which is attached to any \
 of the application windows\
and therefore might be \
 just all over your place all\
over your screen depending \
 on how big your window is\
where it's positioned and \
 so on so what does that\
mean what what what is the \
 cause we're inferring here\
what is it causing how does \
 it fit into the the theory of\
causation and experimentation \
 that we've talked about\
here on the previous \
 slide so in this instance\
what we're saying is that \
 there's something about the\
design decision on Mac, which \
 we're saying is about where\
the bar is placed, that \
 makes the bar work\
differently for users than on \
 Windows. So in other words,\
if we design the bar in the \
 same way as Windows does,\
we expect the users to be \
 slower to engage with it\
than they would be if the bar \
 was on the top of the\
screen. Does that make sense? \
 So the underlying idea is\
that when you're thinking \
 about experimental\
design, you're talking \
 about these independent\
variables, these sort of \
 things that you expect\
are somewhat related to \
 the cause. And you're\
trying to manipulate these \
 and understand how that\
changes some output, \
 which is often described\
as a dependent variable. \
 So what you can be thinking\
about is that the process \
 that you're trying to\
understand, in this case, how \
 quickly people can engage\
with the menu bar, is a black \
 box with lots of inputs and\
few outputs. So the black \
 box might be the user\
using your system with and \
 the controlled experiment\
twiddles some of the input \
 knobs so for example where\
the menu bar is stored um so \
 those are the independent\
variables and then you \
 observe some of the outputs\
the dependent variables in \
 this case how fast people can\
access it to see how they're \
Timestamp 29 minutes affected so for the\
independent variable we might \
 be saying mac and pc but\
we could also be saying um \
 you know the the bar position\
at a particular part of \
 the screen or anything else\
that we're interested in. \
 Now the problem often is\
that there are many other \
 input knobs as well,\
these unknown uncontrolled \
 variables that might affect\
the process that we're \
 observing in an unpredictable\
ways. So often the purpose \
 of running an experiment\
is to really eliminate \
 the effects of these unknown\
variables or at least \
 render them kind of\
distributed across both of the \
 conditions so that we can\
really draw conclusions \
 about how independent\
variables affect the dependent \
 variable. So that's the\
epsilon at the bottom here. \
 So what could some of these\
unknown variables be? If \
 we are still thinking about\
the menu bar experiment, \
 some factors might affect how\
fast the user can reach the \
 menu bar. So for example,\
the pointing device that \
 they're using, whether\
it's a mouse or jackball or \
 joystick or something that\
they're not really used to, how \
 fatigued the user is, how\
used are they to one kind of \
 menu bar or the other. So\
if you have someone who's \
 spent their whole life on\
Windows, they will be looking \
 for the menu bar at the top\
of the screen and so on. \
 So all of these\
unknown variables might \
 really affect the\
dependent variable, \
 which is the speed of\
access to the menu. \
 So concretely, if we bring\
in a bunch of people who \
 may have never used a Mac\
before, it might be that \
 these people are faster\
on Windows when in reality \
 the Mac, on average,\
might be better and so on. \
 So what this means is that\
in our controlled studies, \
 we're always trying to\
minimize or at least control \
 and be cognizant of\
these variables so we can \
 consider them in our analysis.\
Which is why experimental \
 tasks are either often\
more abstract, so it is \
 about I need you to access\
the menu bar at 10 times \
 in a row, and I'll be\
varying the position of the \
 application screen on the\
big screen, for example. \
 And we also have to be\
very careful about who \
 we recruit and what\
are the unknown and \
 uncontrolled variables\
that we're introducing. \
 So how would this abstract\
babble actually work in \
 our example? So we're\
saying, as a reminder, we're \
 testing whether Mac bar\
is faster to access than \
 Windows menu bar. We've\
already said that one of \
 our independent variables\
is exactly the cause that \
 we're trying to look at,\
which is the difference in \
 interface style. So where\
does the menu bar sit? \
 Is it where Mac puts\
it or Windows puts \
 it? The other independent\
variable might \
 be the training that\
we give to users \
 so that they know where to\
expect that menu bar. that \
 might have strong effects.\
If someone's not trained, \
 then or the first time\
they're engaging with this \
 interface, they might take\
much longer, not because it \
 takes longer time to move\
the mouse to the right \
Timestamp 32 minutes place, but because they just\
don't know where to find \
 it, for example. So there's\
multiple independent variables \
 that we could bring in,\
depending on what we're \
 interested in. And then\
obviously, we're measuring \
 some dependent variables.\
So we are talking about the \
 length of time that it takes.\
Perhaps we could be looking \
 at errors, we could be\
looking at satisfaction, \
 we could be looking at how\
many tasks people actually \
 manage to get done within\
a time. So all of these are \
 specific instantiation of\
this hypothesis that Mac \
 menu bar is faster or better\
than Windows menu bar. \
 And we're just saying the\
dependent variables are \
 examples of what the faster\
better actually means. And \
 then often you will use\
statistical tests to accept and \
 reject the hypothesis based\
on your empirical data, \
 which again would normally\
be a whole course. And I \
 hope that you've had enough\
statistics in the rest of \
 your classes that you\
already know what this means. \
 So the important thing\
for HCI here is to really \
 understand what experiments\
are trying to do, that we're \
 trying to show that by moving\
something about our system, \
 something else has a tendency\
to happen and then really \
 be able to talk about what\
is the difference between \
 an independent and a\
dependent variable why is it \
 important to control the\
other interfering inputs if we \
 want to understand something\
about causation and so on \
 so we don't expect you to\
be experts in experiments \
 and experimentation from this\
very short lecture but it's \
 really important for you to\
understand at least these \
 basics as we go forward in\
thinking about what does \
 it mean to evaluate your\
systems. So to finish, I'll \
 point you to this Campbell\
and Kronbach chapter that you \
 have on Keats. It really\
gives probably the best \
 overview of the ideas behind\
experimentation, what it means, \
 and how to run experiments\
that I could find throughout \
 the literature. It doesn't\
really just explain what \
 experiments are, but there's\
a lot of deep kind of \
 discussion about why experiments\
work the way they do. \
 So I think it's\
really important for \
 you to go through that\
text and understand \
 quite deeply what\
the claims we're \
 making when we are running\
studies and what are the \
 things that we need to\
avoid. I'm conscious that the \
 document, you know, that\
the PDF might be quite \
 difficult to read but it will\
really help you understand \
 this stuff in much more\
depth and at your pace. \
 There's also interesting\
bits in there about the \
 philosophy of science that\
kind of helps us understand \
 this movement from the\
value of local observations, \
 meaning, you know, we interview\
a couple of people and \
 say, ah, 10 people out of\
15 have had this problem, \
 so we should probably\
change our design, and then \
 contrast these kind of\
approaches to what we've recently \
 discussed, which is\
talking about causation and \
 generalizable statistical\
patterns, And what does this \
 mean? So, for example,\
when you're wanting to make \
 claims such as a design\
of a generative AI tutor \
 will lead to 30% higher\
learning if we include feature \
 X rather than feature Y,\
you do need to understand \
 causality and you do need\
to understand experiments. \
 So let's quickly get\
into some of the threats \
 that experiments face.\
And these are often \
 reported or talked\
about as the threats to \
 validity and reliability\
of your experiment. \
 So the three top problems\
that cause threats \
 to reliability and\
validity are internal \
 validity, external\
validity, and reliability. \
 And I'll go through each\
one of these at a time. \
 So internal validity refers\
to whether the effects \
 we see on the experiment\
outputs, so for example \
 how fast people have moved\
to the menu bar, were \
 actually caused by the\
changes we made to the \
 inputs. So for example\
whether we gave them the Mac \
 version or the Windows\
version. or if they were \
 caused by some other unknown\
variable that we didn't \
 control or measure and\
we know nothing about. \
 So if you take the\
comic on the right, \
 the boy might assume that\
there's a cause between \
 the seatbelt sign turning\
on, which often happens \
 before you hit turbulence,\
and the plane starting \
 to move. So from his\
perspective, he's saying, \
 well, my experiment is\
anytime I see the sign being \
 turned on, the plane gets\
bumpy, and that's not great. \
 So statisticians call\
this effect, so the sign \
 gets turned on only when\
another variable interjects, \
 which is you're flying\
into a turbulence. \
 So statisticians call\
this effect confounding. \
 When a variable does not,\
that we didn't control, \
 has a systematic effect on\
the dependent variables. \
 Thinking back to the Mac\
and Windows bar experiment, \
 if we accidentally only\
recruited long-term Mac users \
 and then collected only\
one to two trials with each \
 user, it would be very\
likely that the Mac interface \
 would win whatever it is\
that we would be measuring, \
 but that's less about\
how the design operates \
 and more about what our\
users used to and their \
 skill on operating Mac\
and just general hatred \
 of Windows that might\
then lead to the impact. \
 So it's the knowledge\
of the interface that \
 the users are bringing\
in, which would be \
 the uncontrolled\
confounding variable here. \
 The cost of this approach\
is external validity. So \
 if you control too many\
things, then you might turn \
 the experiment into something\
that's so focused that \
 it doesn't resemble the\
real tasks in the world \
 outside of the lab anymore.\
So when this happens, for \
 example, if we try to\
control all the factors that \
 might affect the speed and\
menu access, that would \
 mean that we fix the starting\
mouse position, we fixed \
 the menu bar, there are\
only specific choices that \
 don't necessarily make\
sense, we fixed exactly the \
 hardware and had one\
particular user to this, it \
 would be very hard to argue\
that our lab experiment \
Timestamp 38 minutes then generalizes to how\
menus are used in the varying \
 conditions that are\
encountered in the real world. \
 So that trade-off between\
internal validity and \
 external validity is always\
kind of a big question in \
 study design and it's something \
 that you need to compromise, \
 kind of find a good\
balance in between. \
 reliability refers to\
whether the effect we see, \
 so the relationship\
between the independent \
 and dependent variables,\
such as the Mac bar \
 position and Windows\
position and how fast a mouse \
 can get there, is\
repeatable. So if we ran this \
 experiment again, would\
we see the same effect \
 or would we see something\
totally different? \
 If our experiment involved\
only a single trial, so \
 clicking on the menu board\
just once, then even if \
 we had constant every other\
variable we could think \
 of, unknown variations such\
as how focused the person \
 will have been at that\
specific time will still \
 cause some extra error in\
the experiment and single \
Timestamp 39 minutes data sample is rarely a\
reliable evidence. There will \
 always be some random\
variation in people and the \
 way how they do things,\
which means that often for \
 reliability, you will be\
repeating a lot of things. \
 Okay, so let's very quickly\
have a look at typical \
 dangers that happen to\
internal validity in HCI \
 -style experiments and some\
solutions that we have. \
 So you'll notice that\
very often those solutions \
 tend to come in two flavors.\
Either you randomize \
 something so that you kind\
of prevent the intervening \
 variables to have\
systematic effects on your \
 dependent variables, or you\
try and control and kind \
 of hold constant things\
that could have effect. \
 So the first big thing are\
ordering effects. People \
 are annoying, they learn,\
they get tired. So if you give \
 people 10 similar tasks,\
I don't know, adding five \
 digit numbers, and you change\
interface in between the \
 tasks, if you keep the same\
order of the interfaces, \
 probably the fifth interface\
will always turn out to \
 be slowest, not because it's\
worst but because people \
 will have become really\
tired or annoyed and they \
 don't really want to do that\
kind of addition anymore. \
 So often a good way is\
to not present the task \
 interfaces in the same order\
and you kind of randomize \
 or counterbalance the\
ordering in between \
 participants. The other piece\
are around selection effects \
 so very often humans will\
be annoying that they \
 come in with specific\
skills. So for example, when \
 we talked about this\
hypothetical idea of recruiting \
 lots of Mac users and\
no Windows users, and \
 then assigning them to\
Windows and Mac conditions, \
 the Mac will always\
win because people are \
 used to this. So the\
idea is that you want to \
 think carefully about what\
are the types of populations \
 that would have impact on\
your experiment ideally \
 not sample your users\
only from specific sub \
 populations and then when\
you do sample users again you \
Timestamp 41 minutes try to randomly assign them\
to independent variables. \
 Additional threats to\
experimental validity are about \
 experimental bias so if\
you've spent your half a \
 year building an amazing\
project and now you're \
 introducing that to a participant\
and you're then asking \
 the participant to\
compare it to some sort of \
 competitor's app, you might\
be much more excited about \
 your own project than the\
competitor's and then maybe \
 the users will pick it up\
and behave much nicer or \
 say they much like your\
product much more than the \
 competitor's one, not because\
it's better but because \
 they've been kind of biased\
by the experiment. So \
 the best way to control\
this is just to be aware \
 of it and make sure that if\
you are introducing, you're \
 trying to be as unbiased\
as possible. Ideally, \
 you might not know which of\
the categories or apps the \
 participants have been\
randomized into and so on. \
 Providing equivalent\
training is \
 also really important\
for everyone. \
 similarly some of the threats\
to external validity come \
 up um you know in studies\
very often so kind of only \
 focusing on people from\
your class for example will \
 not be a great um population\
if you're trying to speak \
 about um young people in the\
uk in general so if you're \
 just sampling from university\
and from an informatics \
 course there are some\
obvious threats to you guys \
 are amazing but you're not\
necessarily exactly representative \
 of the same city of of\
the whole uk population \
 so those are population\
threats there might be \
 ecological threats again\
as we were talking about \
 if you make the conditions\
of the test that \
 you're getting your\
participants to do or the \
 task that you're doing,\
getting your participants \
 to do unrealistic, then\
very often you might \
 get data from an experiment\
that is not useful \
 at all. So for example,\
if you ask people to \
 create an essay that they\
really don't care about, \
 they won't have any value\
from whether they do it well \
 or badly, and you're\
using that task that will \
 take, you know, 40 minutes\
of time that you're not \
 paying people for to test how\
well your critical thinking \
 app works well then you\
will have probably some \
 ecological validity threats\
because people just won't \
 pay enough attention and\
they won't behave they \
 won't engage with your app\
in the way that they would \
 in the real world again\
ideas about training and \
 and the types of tasks\
are all pointers to \
 potential issues that your\
experiment might run into \
 so in this final last section\
i really wanted to talk \
 about some basics of\
experimental design techniques \
 so we'll run through these\
very very quickly and \
 again the text that you have\
in keats is something you \
 should look into because it\
has much more information \
 about the details but\
the two main designs that \
 we often consider in hci\
or a human ai collaboration \
 are the between and within\
subject designs so let's \
 talk a little bit about\
the between subject design \
 what happens there is that\
users are divided into you \
 know n categories often two\
or maybe potentially more \
 if you have three different\
apps that you want to \
 engage with and then each\
of the groups only sees one \
 of the options so if we\
stay with two interfaces a \
 and b one group of people\
will only see an interface \
 a and the other group of\
people people will only see \
 an interface B and again\
you can imagine people in \
 a are seeing Mac menu bar\
people in B are seeing the \
 Windows menu bar and then\
what you're measuring is \
 how quickly are they able\
to find things in the \
 taskbar so what you're\
doing is you're comparing \
 often the mean of the\
number of seconds it took \
 people to do a task X in\
the group A and you compare \
 that in the group B. So\
what this does is that \
 it eliminates variation\
due to ordering effects. \
 Users can't really learn\
from one interface to \
 the other, but as you can\
imagine, what it keeps \
 is the difference between\
people. So if you have \
 very high differences\
between people, then someone \
 who really likes Windows\
and you will have that been \
 randomized into the windows\
condition might be much \
 faster than if they were\
randomized into the condition \
 with the mac in contrast\
the within subject design \
 tries to address that problem\
of uncontrolled variation \
 in a different way which\
is that each user then \
 sees both of those interfaces\
in ideally a random or \
 balanced order what this\
means is that the results \
 then are compared within\
each user. So what you're \
 looking at is not necessarily\
how long it took people \
 to go from X to Y on a Mac\
versus a Windows machine, \
 but you're interested in\
seeing whether people were \
 generally faster on Mac\
than they were on Windows. \
 The problem here is that\
people can use, people can \
 learn. So while you're\
eliminating variation due to \
 user differences, because\
the user is only compared \
 with self, you are not really\
dealing with the problem \
 of maybe there's some\
bleed through from task A \
 to task B from one person\
to within that one person. \
 So just to visualize\
this on some sort of \
 more of a diagrammatic\
type of interface, \
 the between subject\
design, as you can see, has \
 individual subjects.\
they all go through the \
 same pretest and posttest,\
but some subjects only \
Timestamp 47 minutes see treatment A, which\
might be Mac, some subjects \
 see treatment B, which\
might be Windows, and \
 some subjects see a\
controlled treatment, which \
 might be working on\
their phone, for example. \
 In contrast, the\
within subjects, \
 you will see again have\
the same pretest and \
 posttest potentially,\
but then everyone goes \
 through the three\
conditions at the same time, \
 having some sort of post\
-test for that condition \
 after each time. Notice\
this green kind of part \
 where we're counterbalancing,\
where half of \
 the participants first\
engage with Mac and then \
 they engage with Windows,\
whereas the first half \
 of the participants\
might have engaged with \
 Windows first and Mac\
later to kind of balance \
 the learning, as we've\
talked about it before. \
 So as a summary, when\
you're thinking about these \
 experiments, there\
are pros and cons that \
 depend on what you want\
to do. The main advantages \
 of the between subjects\
is that we have no \
 training effects, and\
there's also potentially \
 less strain on our\
individual participants, \
 as these might often\
be shorter studies. \
 The main advantages\
of within subjects \
 is that we need\
fewer participants. \
 And this is particularly\
important when you \
 begin to imply some\
inferential statistics \
 where we need to see\
a definitive effect \
 and not just a simple\
comparison of means. \
 It's also quite nice\
because we might be able to \
 look at more precisely\
at the difference in \
 results for the same\
participant, especially if you \
 expect that there's going\
to be a fairly large \
 between participant\
variation in how they engage. \
 Now, finally, the problem\
here is that these \
 designs become really\
complex very quickly \
 the moment you start\
adding conditions. \
 So in summary, both of these \
 options are\
different compromises \
 that try to unpack that\
difficulty of how do you get \
Timestamp 49 minutes at understanding a cause.\
If I change A, how will my \
 dependent variable change,\
knowing that there's so many \
 other inputs that we don't\
control within the system. \
 So just to summarize\
what we've started \
 talking about today,\
and I'm conscious that \
 it's been quite long\
and quite theoretical \
 and much heavier than\
the last two weeks. \
 But we have started talking\
about a fairly in-depth \
 and intricate piece of HCI,\
which means that there's \
 lots of research methods\
that include various options, \
 such as the heuristic or\
think-aloud studies we've \
 talked about today,\
experiments, field studies that \
 we'll talk about next week,\
as well as surveys, which \
 I expect that you know.\
What I really want you to \
 remember from today is both\
what controlled experiments \
 are trying to do and why\
manipulating independent \
 variables and measuring\
dependent variables is one \
 of the ways in which they\
do try to get at causation. \
 Also, I'd like you to think\
about or remember what \
 it means to defend against\
the threats to internal, \
 external validity and\
reliability and how that \
 kind of impacts this\
experimental manipulation. \
 as well as being kind\
of aware of the words \
 of randomization,\
counterbalancing, and \
 how these are often\
used to address some of \
 these threats to\
validity and reliability. \
 So the very final slide for\
this week is again highlighting \
 this notion of we have\
multiple methods that we \
 can think about and each of\
these methods has particular \
 advantages and particular\
limitations that we often \
 need to make compromises\
about and that we pick based \
 on what we really are\
interested in and what we're \
 willing to kind of not\
focus on as much. And that's \
 often why research is also\
triangulate. So you might run \
 an experiment, but then you\
might also run an observational \
Timestamp 51 minutes study or a think-aloud\
study to understand a \
 little more about why and\
how people are engaging with \
 your system combine the\
results from multiple methods. \
 So with this I'll leave\
you to your reading and I \
 look forward to seeing you\
at the LGTs and next week \
 we'll be talking about red\
teaming and we'll also be \
 talking about technology\
probes as the final two \
 methods that you'll need for\
this course. See you then! }