{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0  Hi everyone, and welcome\
back to the week 3 of Human \
 AI Interaction, where\
we'll be talking about the \
 interface and interaction\
patterns for human AI systems. \
 So what this means is we'll\
be talking about these \
 little heuristics or rules\
of thumb, or you could say \
 Lego brick approaches that\
people have found useful as \
 their designing systems,\
these little structures that \
 you can reuse and apply\
across many different places. \
 So, where did we end up last\
time? We have been talking \
 about human cognition.\
We've been talking about \
 the fact that human cognition\
doesn't change as quickly \
 as technology, so that's\
quite helpful because we \
 can start building theories,\
and we can have a better \
 sense of how people might\
react, regardless of whether \
 you're showing them\
something on a desktop or on \
 a smartphone or as a little\
AI machine in their ear. \
 Something about the cognition\
will remain the same. \
 So we've talked about visual\
perception and memory, \
 the really important\
concept of mental models, \
 which we'll be talking about\
more and more and more, \
 as well as theory of\
distributed cognition. So \
 those sort of ways in which\
your cognition or perhaps \
 even your mental models\
of how something works \
 get distributed across\
into the environment. And \
 finally, we've talked about\
how because we bring some \
 mental models into\
interactions and we've mostly \
 interacted with humans or\
other inanimate objects, \
 often people might behave as if \
 computers were social actors. \
 So, what does this mean? \
 So, it means that today\
we'll be trying to combine \
 the definitions and the\
big ideas that we've \
 had in week one together\
with these more theory \
 -based ideas from week two.\
So we'll be talking about, \
 well, what does it mean\
to think about interaction \
 design and interaction\
design goals, how do \
 they kind of flow out of\
the heuristics or, sorry, \
 the cognitive models\
that we've talked about \
 before, and how should we\
approach it as designers. \
 So another way of thinking\
about this is that the \
 interface and interaction\
patterns and the approaches \
 around these that we'll be\
talking about today are a way \
 of having a more focused\
or structured approach of \
 how we can move from the\
image on the left to the one \
 on the right. So, both\
having some structure to \
 identify in which ways is the\
left one really bad, these \
 will be usability goals and\
heuristics, but then also \
 to think about how can we\
address the issues we've \
 identified to make that\
design better, and these will \
 be the patterns as examples\
of design solutions that \
 have been used elsewhere\
before and so that you don't \
 have to really reinvent the\
wheel every single time. \
 So essentially this\
lecture should help us move \
 from designing for\
interaction overall model \
 and the ways in which to\
think about it, to some \
 practical examples of\
how should we or would we \
 build systems that are\
easy to learn, effective \
 to use and provide\
enjoyable user experience. \
 So what we'll start\
talking about is what makes \
 a system usable and what\
are the six aspects of \
 interactive systems,\
regardless of whether they're \
 based on an elevated\
DAW or a generative AI \
Timestamp 3 minutes agentic tool, what are the\
aspects that these systems \
 need to strive for. Then\
we'll move to talking \
 about the heuristics of\
how we can achieve this. \
 So if the six usability\
goals describe the properties \
 of the finalized systems,\
the heuristics give you some \
 initial tools of how we\
can get to those goals. And \
 finally, we'll then delve a\
little bit deeper into how \
 these patterns and usability\
characteristics apply to \
 this new generative AI\
world. What we can use, what \
 we need to think about in\
new, and what is different. \
 So, let's start with focusing\
on the usability goals. \
 So I'm conscious that\
these six goals might feel \
 a bit like, duh, of course\
systems are supposed \
 to do this. But let's\
go through these one \
 by one on simple examples\
and show that there \
 might be perhaps a bit\
more nuance to what each of \
 these terms means in\
this particular context. \
 In particular, what I hope\
you will see as well is that \
 often the most useful thing\
to do in design is to ask \
Timestamp 4 minutes good questions and knowing\
what questions to ask. So \
 instead of trying to define how\
each of these characteristics \
 looks like for any\
design context you could \
 imagine, so what would it\
mean to build a system that's \
 safe for use, what are all\
the things they need to do, \
 we might be defining them\
essentially through the \
 questions you will ask\
yourself as you're trying to \
 understand or improve that\
interactive system design. \
 So the first one is probably\
the most obvious one. \
 For something to be\
usable, you need to be able \
 to accomplish what your\
goal is. So if your \
 messaging tool is unable\
to send or receive \
 messages, it's probably\
not particularly usable. \
 In other words, effective\
means that I can, in \
 the end, get done what\
I wanted to get done. So \
 even this silly way of\
representing parking \
 information is technically\
effective. If I stand there \
 for long enough, it's\
possible to understand \
 when, where, and how I'm\
supposed to work or not. \
 It might be hard, but\
technically it's possible. \
 So the key questions here\
are around whether or \
 not the product is\
capable of allowing people \
 to learn or carry out\
their work efficiently, \
 access the information they\
need, buy the goods that \
 they want, convey the\
intent that they'd like to \
 convey for the AI, and so\
forth. So it's just about, \
 is there a possibility\
to accomplish this task? \
 Notice the difference\
here between effective, \
 as in being able to\
deliver in principle, \
 and efficient, which\
means that you're \
 able to carry out the\
tasks necessary with \
 as limited energy\
required as possible. \
 In that sense, having\
an instant messaging \
 tool that would only\
allow you to send your \
 message one letter at\
a time is technically \
 effective, but it's\
certainly not efficient. \
 So, the key questions\
here are around, once \
 people might have learned\
how your system works, \
 can they sustain a high\
level of productivity or can \
 they sustain a high level\
of a good experience, \
 feeling happy, feeling that\
connected to their friends, \
 whatever it is that your\
system attempts to do. \
 so to use this example again \
 it's clearly or it will\
likely be much more \
 effective for people to\
understand when and how can \
 they park it doesn't really\
matter how many times \
 you've approached or\
experienced a terrible mess \
 of symbols you would\
always have to think about \
 it quite hard whereas this\
might provide you with \
 a much simpler, cognitively\
much simpler task \
 In some way, it's\
distributing the \
 cognition out into\
the environment. \
 So we've talked about\
the first two goals. \
 Is it effective and\
is it efficient? \
 Now we're going to talk\
about the safe-to-use one. \
 So really, this is quite\
obvious. It's about what \
 are the range of errors\
that are possible if you're \
 using the product, and\
what measures are there to \
 permit users to recover\
easily from these errors. \
 So, if you think about why\
this keyboard is there, \
 one of the reasons might\
be that, for example, \
 the delete key is really\
close to an enter key. \
 So what might happen very\
often is that you would \
 accidentally press the\
delete as you're trying \
 to press enter, which\
might mean that there's \
 a range of errors that\
are introduced by just \
 the way of how the\
keyboard has been designed \
 that might not be present\
in other places, and \
 that might or might not\
be easy to recover from. \
 Making things safe to\
use is also one of the \
 reasons why, even in\
very, very old Windows, \
 you might get these\
kind of notifications. \
 They're saying, has your intent \
 really been to\
delete this record? \
 Are you really\
trying to do this, \
 just in case this\
was an accident? \
 Because those\
might be the cases \
 where you're not\
able to recover. \
 might just be gone forever. \
 So that allows\
us to move to the \
Timestamp 8 minutes next goal, which\
is a good utility. \
 Now utility clearly\
depends both on the task at \
 hand, so what are you\
trying to do, and who is it \
 who's doing it. So for\
example, a Unix terminal might \
 provide many functionalities\
and is exceedingly \
 useful perhaps to many of\
you. However, there are \
 also many people in the\
general population for whom \
 a Unix terminal has\
absolutely no utility at all, \
 because they wouldn't know\
how to engage with it. \
 It certainly does not\
enable them to carry out the \
 tasks in the way that they\
would want to do them. \
 A similar example is\
this photo from our first \
 week, where what's\
happening here is clearly \
 that the utility of the\
big TV remote was not \
 great for those people\
who wanted to use them. \
 It was not the\
appropriate sort of \
 functions because there\
were just too many \
 functions and the\
users got confused. \
 So this is another example\
of both identifying \
 an issue with utility\
and then a very \
 interesting designerly\
way to fix them. \
 So the next to last one\
is how easy is it for the \
 interface or the system to\
be used? So is it possible \
 for the user to work out\
how to use the product \
 and trying it out. Will\
they mess something out? \
 How hard will it be for\
them to learn a whole set \
 of functions? Now, the\
reason why I'm including \
 this kind of very traditional\
now chat-based interface \
 is that on some level,\
this is really easy to \
 use, but on some other\
levels, it might not be. \
 So, it's easy because it's\
relatively easy to start. \
 You know, where should we\
begin? I start conversation \
 as if this was a human,\
so think back to week two. \
 But what's perhaps hard\
is that the interface \
 doesn't really allow\
people to explore the whole \
 range of options and\
activities or actions that are \
 available to them, which\
is something that many \
 of the companies are trying\
to explore right now. \
 Contrast that, \
 for example, to the\
apps that you might \
 have on your phone,\
and I hope that it's \
 not bejeweled. But\
let's imagine it is. \
 Likely, these are much\
easier and straightforward to \
 learn, mostly because they're\
often much more specific \
 and focused activities than\
the highly multipurpose \
 tools, such as the terminal\
or the chatbot interface, \
 which we don't really know\
how to deal with, and so on. \
 So finally, memorability. \
 So when you read the\
key question for this \
 usability goal, your brain\
should immediately start \
 harking back to the last\
week's content. Think \
 around memory, such as\
recall is always easier \
 than having to create\
an idea from scratch, \
 as well as\
distributed cognition, \
 where you're manipulating\
your environment \
 to leave traces\
of your actions, \
 or perhaps what actions are\
possible, or perhaps where \
 you are in that process\
and what you could do next. \
 So again, memorability is\
about the interface and the \
 ways in which you enable\
and help users to remember \
 what they should do to carry\
out tasks, and especially \
 perhaps so for the things\
that they do infrequently, \
 where the recall is not just\
based on them remembering \
 they're supposed to do this\
task, but it's about, well, \
 I'm supposed to do it, how\
was that happening again? \
 So overall, you should\
think of these six goals as \
 the first, the, line of\
defense, one that you can always \
 take when you're analyzing\
an interface or you're \
 trying to develop a system\
yourself. So what you \
 should be thinking is along\
the lines of, well, what \
 are the user's goals here?\
What mental models do they \
 bring? How are these aligned\
with the conceptual models \
 behind the scenes of how\
the system works? What \
 would it mean to make things\
efficient to use? What \
 are they trying to do and\
what is the energy here? Is \
 it time? Is it the effort?\
Is it the number of people \
 they need to reach out\
to? What does utility mean \
 to users? How hard will\
it be for them to learn or \
 remember how to execute\
tasks? And again, remember the \
 gulf of execution concept\
from last week and so on. \
 So overall, though, these\
tools are still only here \
 to help us identify problems,\
what could go wrong, \
 but they don't really directly\
help us figure out how \
 to solve anything, any of\
these issues that we find. \
 But before we start\
talking about solutions, \
 there's one final point\
I want to make about the \
 relationship between\
usability, which is what \
 we've talked about, for\
example, defined for \
 simplicity through six\
goals, and user experience. \
 A simple definition of\
user experience here is \
 that it talks about how\
the system feels to the \
 user, when they're attracted\
with it, whether that \
 is holding it, working\
with it, or having to be \
 bossed around by it, for\
example, if you're an \
 Uber driver or another\
member of the gig economy. \
 So, one of the major\
implications here, then, is \
 that you can't really\
design a user experience. \
 experience. You can only\
design for user experience. \
 The experience is always\
something that the user \
 gets when they're\
interacting with your system. \
 And you can kind of shape\
how those interactions \
 might look like, but you\
can't force an experience \
 on them in the same way\
as you can't force people \
 to enjoy a movie. You can\
just try and do a movie \
 that a lot of people might\
likely find enjoyable. \
 When you start thinking\
about objectives and start \
 comparing usability and\
user experience, you can \
 see how usability is much\
more restrictive, right? So \
 it might be effective,\
efficient, satisfying whatever \
 goal you want. But user\
experience is often \
 much broader. It might be\
talking about aesthetically \
 pleasing, it might be\
talking about how enjoyable \
 it is, how motivating,\
rewarding, is it supporting \
 of your creativity or of\
your goals, and so forth. \
 So one of the common \
 misrepresentations associated\
between this usability \
 versus user experience\
distinction is that \
 design and associated\
user experience is often \
 driven by how beautiful\
something is and those \
 beautiful things just work\
better in the sense of \
 providing a great user\
experience, whether that is \
 with sleek apps or cars\
or furniture or Macs. But \
 the question is, is that\
really true in general? \
 So this is often associated\
with the notion of the \
 role of the designer being\
to make things pretty or \
 appealing or slick. For\
example, this little juicy \
 salive, which is essentially\
a fairly expensive or \
 inexpensive, depending on how\
you look at it, inexpensive \
 sculpture to put on your\
work desk in the kitchen. \
 However, another way\
of thinking about this, \
 the user experience\
that's underlying this, \
 is when you don't think\
about how appealing \
 it is, but you think\
about the goals and what \
 happens when you try\
to achieve these goals. \
 In this case, the\
juicy satellite might \
 look beautiful, but then make a \
 massive mess all over\
your kitchen bench, \
 kitchen desktop, and throw\
pips into your drink, \
 whereas the juicer that\
costs a fourth of a flat \
 white somewhere, will\
actually do a much more \
 effective and enjoyable\
job in the end, because \
Timestamp 15 minutes the enjoyment is not\
about looking at it, the \
 enjoyment is about the\
drink that this produces. \
 And just in case you were\
wondering why everyone keeps \
 on talking about juicy\
salads, it's partially \
 because Don Norman has put\
that picture on top of his \
 emotional design as I think\
a good example of what it \
 means to design beautiful\
things and why they sometimes \
 work and sometimes don't\
work particularly well. \
 So one way of thinking\
about this is that usability \
 and user experience are\
at least two dimensions \
 that are relatively\
independent on each other, and \
 that we could position to\
this two-by-two matrix. \
 So what this means is that\
you might have products \
 that are beautiful and also\
really usable and that's \
 often where we want to\
get to. But then there \
 are the other three squares\
that we can talk about. \
 The beautiful but unusable\
one is the juicy cellar. \
 It looks amazing, it's\
very appealing, it's a \
 sculpture, it's art, but\
it doesn't quite work. \
 The charming but usable is\
the juicer that actually \
 works, but it doesn't\
really look very nice \
 and it's not something\
you'd show proudly to anyone \
 coming to your home.\
And obviously, the stuff \
 that nobody wants is the\
stuff that's not usable, \
 and also doesn't look\
like anything that you'd \
 like to be around, so\
let's just not do those. \
 So, just to wrap up, the\
idea here is that the \
 usability itself, or the\
usability goals, aren't the \
 only thing that matters,\
and that user experience \
 is really important too,\
but it's also deeply \
 tied to the usability of\
the system that you have. \
 Okay, so we've gone through\
usability goals, we've \
 talked about how that\
relates to user experience, \
 so let's move on to\
heuristics. Let's move on to \
 thinking about how could\
we design for usability. \
 Now what this means is\
that we're moving to \
 talking a bit about the\
design decisions and \
Timestamp 17 minutes choices, which are the\
properties of the resulting \
 system that can lead\
to a usable product. \
 As you'll see, the\
heuristics again suggests \
 questions and associated\
design patterns that \
 if followed make it more\
likely that a system \
 will be understandable\
and usable for users. \
 But before we can get to the\
individual actions, let's \
 have a look at the concept\
of heuristic. What it \
 is, where else are we talking\
about heuristics, and so \
 on. This can hopefully then\
help us understand a bit \
 more about how to use these\
heuristics for design. \
 You might have heard about\
heuristics, for example, \
 in programming or in\
similar places. This is \
 because the term heuristic\
itself just refers to a \
 strategy that is derived from\
previous experiences with \
 similar problems. So what\
are the implications? \
 You can think of\
these strategies as \
 your best bets or\
rules of thumbs, \
 something that might\
just likely work because \
 it worked on similar things\
before, but might not \
 actually work in your\
particular instance. So, \
 this is what the second\
paragraph says. When \
Timestamp 18 minutes you are applying a heuristic,\
you rely on information \
 that is easily\
accessible, but might or \
 might not be directly\
applicable to your problem. \
 There is also a second\
way in which this term \
 heuristic is used, in\
psychology and neuroscience, \
 where what it means is\
that heuristics are, again, \
 similarly simple rules\
that can be applied, but \
 which might have been\
learned or hard-coded by \
 evolutionary process. And\
these have been proposed to \
 explain how people make\
decisions, come to judgments, \
 solve problems, and\
just generally approach \
 situations where you face\
incomplete situations \
 or you need to make\
choices quite quickly. \
 The original research,\
which I really \
 recommend you to read\
if you have a moment. \
 And what I really want to\
point out is especially \
 the notion of satisficing\
as being crucial for \
 design. So what this\
means is that your users \
 will usually not do a\
detailed analysis of your \
 system and really think\
it through, but will just \
 make choices that seem\
good enough at the time. \
Timestamp 19 minutes And often what good\
enough means for a \
 participant is a much\
lower bar or user is \
 a much lower bar than\
you would imagine. \
 So the way that we will\
use heuristics in design is \
 based on both of these\
aspects. The first one more or \
 less talks about how designers\
think about solutions. \
 So the heuristics are about\
the design heuristics of \
 how to perhaps resolve a\
situation of, say, creating an \
 understandable login flow.\
Because you've already \
 seen that problem resolved\
in many other places before. \
 The second one then talks\
about the potentials for \
 errors or understanding of\
the mental models that your \
 users might bring along\
to your system. So that is \
 perhaps what creates the\
problems in the first place. \
 So let's have a look at\
what this means in practice. \
 OK, so what we'll do is now\
step through these Jacob \
 Nielsen's heuristics\
one at a time. These are \
 all really pretty old,\
but have remained a useful \
 tool in the designers'\
toolkit for quite some time. \
 So what I'll be trying to\
do is always talk about \
 what that particular heuristic\
does or what it talks \
 about, and use some\
examples, both traditional \
 ones, as well as sometimes\
some from generative AI. \
 So the first one\
seems very obvious, \
 and it is easy to get it wrong. \
 When we interact with\
physical objects, we mostly \
 see the effects of our\
actions right away. So if \
 I try opening the door,\
press the handle and push, \
 I expect to see something\
happening. It might be \
 the door opening, or it\
might be my realization \
 that the door is locked,\
because it does not open. \
 Now, this is not\
necessarily the same for \
 digital systems,\
where actions often \
 initiate otherwise\
hidden or delay changes. \
 So the heuristic says that\
the system should always \
 keep users informed about\
what's going on, through \
 appropriate feedback and\
within reasonable time. \
 So imagine if you\
were selecting your \
 interests or hobbies\
or whatever this is. \
 You clicked on things, but\
it didn't change color, \
 it didn't put a little\
tick mark. The system will \
Timestamp 21 minutes just remember that you\
clicked it without any change \
 on the interface. That\
would mean that there's \
 no visibility, there's no\
feedback, the action has \
 been recorded on the system,\
but you have no chance \
 of knowing whether that\
has actually worked or \
 has not. And that would be\
a problem, because then, \
 as you would imagine,\
people get really confused. \
 We might get similar\
instances of signifiers in \
 other places, physical\
places. So, for example, the \
 old Mac charge cables\
have had this little light \
 that indicated whether,\
A, the energy is going. \
 There was light at all. And\
whether the Mac is charging, \
 orange, or whether the\
Mac is fully charged, \
 The new Macs don't have\
it. There are benefits to \
 this, because you can just\
use the same cable for \
 everything, but you also\
lost this ability of \
 getting this immediate\
visibility and feedback, and \
 the system needs to deal\
with it in another way. \
 We also see this idea of\
providing visibility and \
 feedback of things that are\
happening behind the scenes \
 within generative AI systems.\
So you might have seen \
 this slide from week one,\
but the idea of, I have \
 provided some intent to\
generative AI, and now the field \
 is still trying to figure\
out how to represent what \
 is actually happening behind\
the scenes, how to make \
 that kind of visually\
accessible, and how to provide \
 feedback for whether or\
not my intent has been \
 communicated well in various\
ways. This, I think, what \
 Persplexity does is what\
now has been copied by GDD5, \
 what Claude does\
as well, all the \
 thinking models do\
that. So it's perhaps \
 starting to become\
a design pattern, \
 but it's one that is still\
being created. And the \
 purpose of all this is\
really to engage with the \
 visibility and feedback, to\
make you aware of what has \
 happened, rather than\
just sitting there for 10 \
 minutes without even indicating\
how much time is left. \
 The second one, again,\
seems relatively \
 obvious, but has a few catches. \
 By referring to user\
language, the first part \
 mainly means that our system\
should speak and label \
 possible actions using\
terminology that maps to \
 users' goal of conceptual\
models or mental models, \
 and how they think about\
how the technology works, \
 rather than the\
implementation of that \
 technology. So as a user,\
you would be surprised if \
 your thermostat labeled\
actions as reduce valve \
 5 and 7, as opposed to\
heat up the living room. \
 So, one potential way of\
providing some skeuomorphic \
 designs, so designs that\
match onto what's happening in \
 the real world, is to draw\
on users' existing conceptual \
 and mental models that\
they bring from elsewhere. \
 So, for example, if you\
know that your users kind \
 of assume that a digital\
page should still have \
 highlighting, you can\
provide design that kind of \
 allows them to operate on\
that page as if they were \
 holding a highlighter,\
they're just using their \
 finger instead of it. Or\
you can provide something \
 that acts as a compass,\
even though that's a thing. \
 In both cases, it makes\
it easier both for the \
 designer and for the\
user to understand which \
 actions might lead to\
which goals and why. \
 Now, you can see that these\
attempts to match real \
 -world conceptual models can\
also be problematic, such as \
 if it is relying on schemas\
of talking to a human, \
 which then leads to\
anthropomorphisation of systems and \
 can lead users to have\
wrong mental and conceptual \
 models of how the system\
works, how and why to interpret \
 the output and what to do\
if that output is wrong. \
 So the third heuristic is\
one about user control and \
 freedom, and we'll see that\
in traditional systems, \
 that often meant kind of\
enabling a user to recover \
 from an error when something\
happened that they didn't \
 intend or now they realized\
that they hadn't intended \
 it and now they need to\
revert that option. So this \
 is a joyful example of the\
situation where the joke is \
 in assuming that user\
control is the active choice \
 of not responding. So I\
could ask, I didn't respond, \
 it was a choice and therefore\
it's okay. whereas our \
 internal simulations of how\
this could happen mean that \
 this is unlikely the the\
most plausible option is \
 probably because someone has\
left they just left their \
 computer sitting there so\
in effect this situation \
 would offer the illusion of\
control user has been asked \
 but then do an irreversible\
action as a result so part \
 of giving your users control\
and freedom is that you \
 don't want to lock them\
into decisions from which \
 there is no escape So imagine\
how much more annoying \
 booking on Airbnb or other\
places would be if, for example, \
 you couldn't return to your\
map or to your preselected \
 hostings and whatever\
you clicked on first, you \
 kind of would have to restart\
entirely from scratch. \
Timestamp 26 minutes So what control and freedom\
also means is interesting \
 when it comes to generative\
AI. And as you can see \
 on this video, there's\
many more degrees of what a \
 control or freedom to interact\
with whatever the system \
 has created for you could\
look like when you do \
 interact with Gen.AI\
objects. And I think, as with \
 everything, there is still\
a lot that's being developed \
 and designed within the\
field as we're trying to \
 understand what these tools\
would actually look like. \
 So we will try starting\
to go through these \
 with a bit more speed,\
as I hope you're starting \
 to get the gist of\
what these heuristics \
 mean and how you might\
be able to use them. \
 So the consistency and\
standards one should take \
 you back to the cognition\
lecture last week, \
 from where it should be\
obvious that it will be \
 easier for people to\
engage with your system if \
 the same action is not\
represented by multiple \
 objects, or if it's\
generally consistent with \
 how particular objects\
react and what they mean. \
 This is particularly\
important if your users \
 are bringing conceptual\
models from interactions \
 with other apps or\
systems or devices. \
 There are some great\
examples of how consistency \
 and also many other\
heuristics have been \
 instantiated, for example,\
by Apple, into their \
 developer and design\
guidelines. Well, part of the \
 ideas is that many\
apps should behave very \
 similarly within that\
ecosystem, and for common \
 actions, you would have\
common representations. \
 Some of the activities\
that happen later in this \
 lesson will be to really\
go and engage with both \
 the existing guidelines\
and heuristics that people \
 have developed for pre\
-Channel AI systems, but \
 then also talking a\
little bit about how that \
 changes now that we have\
GenAI systems and what are \
 the things that the\
field's trying to develop. \
 So we'll see that\
in traditional UX \
 guidelines, these can\
get really specific. \
 For example, Apple will\
enforce that your menu bar \
 menus should typically\
include the following options \
 and these options should\
be in the following order. \
 So we won't go into\
details just yet. I just \
 wanted to put this\
slide here to show how \
 for the human AI\
interaction guidelines \
 the specifications are\
much more high level. \
 It's about you should\
support a particular \
 type of interaction, so\
you should match social \
 norms or you should\
support efficient \
 dismissal, rather than\
really prescribing the \
 specific ways in which\
this gets implemented. \
 So the next heuristic is\
around error prevention. \
 So while control allows\
you to potentially \
 roll back an action\
that you didn't want \
 to do, it's often\
much better to prevent \
 users from doing errors\
in the first place. \
 So the idea is often\
that you identify kind of \
 dangerous situations within\
your app. What could the \
 user want to do and what\
might they accidentally choose \
 to do instead? If you\
remember, for example, the \
Timestamp 29 minutes keyboard, that was an\
example of kind of physical \
 error prevention gone\
wrong, where instead of \
 pressing enter, you would\
delete the particular piece. \
 So as with everything,\
Japanese have a beautiful \
 term for this, Pokaryoke,\
which is a mechanism \
 where by design you\
prevent people from doing \
 a mistake that could\
have been really serious. \
 For example, if you have a\
manual car, you're unable \
 to start the motor unless your\
clutch is fully depressed. \
 because if you didn't\
have it depressed it could \
 mean that you start the\
motor and it immediately \
 tries turning the wheels.\
So that would be an example \
 of this mistake proofing or\
error prevention that we're \
 talking about. You can see\
many of these instances \
 in digital apps and on your\
desktop systems as well. \
 Some of these might be also\
thinking about what are the \
 immediate actions, right?\
So people often will create, \
 kind of accidentally do\
something and then are tired \
 of notifications so would\
wave them away so for example \
 that's why you might choose\
to design the system so \
 that when you're asking\
whether the question is end \
 the game and lose all progress\
the primary thing is on \
 no so if you haven't done\
that if you don't think about \
 it and you just press an\
entry or something it will \
 not end your game you have to\
make a choice active choice \
 to to end that game so\
that's kind of a error \
 prevention right there similarly\
if an activity or action \
 has some side effects that\
you weren't aware of such as \
 changing the zoom will restore\
to your iPhone you might \
 want to make it again a\
very active explicit choice \
 so that you're sure as a\
designer that the participants \
 know or your users know\
what they're doing and why. \
 So this heuristic\
goes hand in hand with \
 heuristic fall, consistency and \
 standards. So how do\
they actually differ? \
 The number four, consistency\
and standards, talks about \
 how the actions that needs\
to be done are actually \
 done within the system, both\
within your specific kind \
 of universe of the things\
that you allow people to do \
 within your app or system\
or whatever it is that you \
 design, as well as comparing\
it to all the other systems \
 that are similar and\
that your user is used to \
 interacting with. So if you\
build an app, your app needs \
 to be quite similar in many of\
those mechanisms, consistent \
 with many of the mechanisms\
that other apps use. \
 In terms of recognition,\
you're talking more about \
 once the person is within\
your universe, within \
 your app, your system, and\
has learned how to engage \
 with it, how do they\
know what is currently \
 possible to do. So reducing\
the gulf of evaluation. \
 So this might mean kind\
of providing possibilities \
 that are available. You'll\
see this as filling of \
 the words or possible\
variables in, say, a coding \
 system. Or it might be\
things in games where you're \
 kind of showcasing what\
is it exactly that the \
 options are or which buttons\
to press. This might not \
 be really necessary and\
people don't pay attention \
 to it for the actions\
that are quite common. But \
 if there's an action that\
you don't get to use as \
 often but you know that\
you want it, again, the \
 recall makes it easier to\
engage and not lose time. \
 Next heuristic is about\
flexibility and efficiency \
 of use. So the idea here\
is that if people start, \
 they might need something\
relatively simple and \
 not too complicated and\
everything needs to be visible \
 and available for recall.\
Whereas if people use \
 your app frequently there\
might be some underlying \
 models or engagements\
that you want to speed up. \
 I would encourage you to\
pause this slide for a little \
 bit and just read how the\
types of questions that \
 might be asked by beginners,\
intermediates and experts \
Timestamp 33 minutes can happen. Again this is\
not true for all the apps or \
 systems you might build but\
that tends to be true for \
 quite a lot of apps and\
systems. What I think is \
 interesting here is that\
most of your users, if you're \
 successful, will be\
intermediates, right? So there are \
 people who've already used\
your app or used your system, \
 might not have used\
it very recently, \
 but already know\
what to do. And then \
 you'll have some\
light tail of experts. \
 And it is for these experts\
that you might start \
 providing additional tooling\
that will increase their \
 efficiency so you're no\
longer kind of trying to guide \
 them and build their mental\
and conceptual models about \
 how your tool works but\
right now you're really \
 trying to provide them with\
the most energy efficient \
 way of engaging with your\
system so this is an example \
 of shortcut stickers that\
you can place on your \
 keyboard if you're working\
a lot with adobe illustrator \
 so that it becomes a way\
of reminding you what those \
 shortcuts are. So the act\
of having the sticker is not \
 part of the flexibility,\
it's not part of the \
 heuristic, but the fact that\
Adobe Illustrator has this \
 hidden kind of layer of tools\
that allow you to be more \
 efficient, that's what\
falls within that heuristic. \
 There's lots to be said\
that things can be or \
 should be aesthetic and\
minimalistic. So the idea \
 here is that you're\
really trying to focus on \
 signal-to-noise ratio.\
So what does this mean? \
 In the old age, websites\
might look like this. \
 So it's like a jumble of\
lots of things that it's \
 really hard to figure\
out what is it you're \
 looking for, where the\
information is. There's \
 potentially a lot of signal,\
but each of these signals \
 is kind of hidden among\
a lot of the noise. \
 Compare this to, say, a\
slightly newer web page. \
Timestamp 35 minutes Here, you will see, as you will \
 see on many of\
the landing apps, \
 everything's optimized\
to a particular action or \
 a small set of actions.\
So what is it you would \
 want to do? You could book\
travel, you could look at \
 flight status, you could\
do some check-in, and \
 you might think about your\
trips, and then you have \
 some other smattering of\
common tasks around it. \
 So if the previous heuristic\
has tried to simplify \
 users' cognition by kind\
of channeling them by \
 increasing the signal-to\
-noise ratio and highlighting \
 the information that might\
be important to them, \
 this heuristic is talking\
about well how do you \
 help people evaluate and\
get a sense of whether or \
 not something has gone\
wrong, what the status of the \
 system is, and how could\
they recover from this. \
 So as an example, I don't\
know how many of you still \
 tweet or X or whatever it\
is right now, but this is an \
 example of showing you how\
many characters you have \
Timestamp 36 minutes left out of your 180. And\
then if you do go over, it \
 kind of shows you very\
explicitly what the error was, \
 too many characters, and\
how many of those characters \
 are actually the ones that\
are causing the problem. \
 Similarly, within Gen.ai\
systems, you start seeing \
 these types of patterns\
emerging. So very often in chat \
 -based systems, you will\
have the opportunity to \
 retry, or you could retry\
with a different model, with \
 extended thinking in this\
case. Or very often, some \
 of these systems, like\
Claude, start allowing you to \
 branch, so you can kind of\
go back in that conversation \
 because it hasn't gone\
the way that you want it, \
 and you can branch off a\
different conversation by \
 either just rerunning,\
rerolling what LLM gives you, or \
 editing the opportunity.\
So this is one way \
 in which people are\
currently thinking about \
 embedding some of this\
error correction in \
 something that is\
essentially a dialogue that \
 That is hard to kind of\
shift halfway through. \
 Finally, help and\
documentation. \
 So, obviously, it's\
better if people \
 can just use your\
system naturally. \
 But having some\
documentation and helping \
 people understand if\
they do get stuck and \
 thinking very carefully\
about what it means for \
 them to get unstuck is\
also really crucial. \
 So what I want to leave\
you with is this. Although \
 the 10 usability heuristics\
have been presented as \
 independent, they're all\
really related to each other \
 and also they're related\
to the six usability goals \
 that we have talked about\
before. So what I want you \
 to do now, if you have a\
little bit of time, is kind \
 of pause this, go back\
through the lecture and really \
 try to see which of the\
heuristics link to which \
 goals. Ideally, you could\
create little spider webs \
 like these, where you can\
think about how the heuristics \
 then link up to the\
individual usability kills. \
 So over time, many\
designers have applied these \
 heuristics to create\
common patterns that solve \
 common engagement\
problems. These could be in \
 boarding flows or login\
pages, perhaps things like \
 how do you enable users\
to filter or sort a larger \
 list of items. So, what\
I've posted into Keats \
 is this link to a short\
video that provides an \
 overview of design pattern\
libraries, so websites \
 that assemble and curate\
these design patterns. \
 And these are assembled for \
 pre-gen AI UX technologies. \
 And what I'd encourage\
you to look through is not \
 necessarily go in a lot of\
detail through every single \
 web page, but just at\
least have a look at the \
 video and spend a couple\
of minutes, just browsing \
 through at least three of\
the five websites that they \
 might offer and suggest,\
just for you to get a \
 sense what does it mean to\
think about a design pattern \
 and what are the kinds\
of patterns that you will \
Timestamp 39 minutes see there that you'll then\
recognize within apps. \
 There's similarly\
interesting questions \
 about how these design\
pattern libraries \
 will look like for\
Gen.ai systems. \
 And as I mentioned earlier,\
these are far from being \
 as detailed as the current\
UX patterns, which I've \
 had probably about 20 years\
or so to develop, but there \
 are really some few interesting\
websites that try to \
 curate patterns that seem\
interesting or useful or \
 exciting or perhaps starting\
to become common, and \
 then they kind of bring them\
all together into a nice \
 little place that you can\
look at. Shape of AI is one \
 of these and is linked in\
Keats, and I would suggest \
 that you go and have a look at \
 it once you have\
a little moment. \
 We're also starting to see\
multiple sets of guidelines \
 that are trying to curate\
a similarly focused \
 set of best practice that\
people should think about, \
 akin to the usability\
heuristics by Neeson from \
 decades ago that we've\
talked about earlier. The \
 blog post that I've posted\
at Keats outlines the top \
 five ones that are\
relatively recent, and again, \
Timestamp 40 minutes it's part of your reading\
materials for this week. \
 What I want to do in the\
rest of this lecture is \
 just pull out two guidelines\
that are five years \
 apart one of these coming\
from microsoft the other one \
 coming from ibm where\
the 2019 one was talking \
 about human ai interaction\
but it was pre-generative \
 ai so it was talking about\
systems that are making \
 decisions and are kind\
of deep learning systems \
 where you might have been\
thinking about the data \
 that one thing whereas the\
2024 ones are very recent \
 and they really talk about\
what what does it mean \
 to design for and with\
generative ai applications \
 So, I will not be going\
through all the guidelines in \
 these papers, as it would\
be really boring for you, \
 but also as you will get to\
engage with these in depth \
 during one of the LGTs,\
where you'll be using the \
 individual guidelines and picking\
and matching the guidelines \
 to stress test a system\
that you have developed. \
 What I wanted to do\
here, though, is just to \
 really illustrate the\
format that people took to \
 specify the guidelines.\
In this case, a simple \
 title, make clear what\
the system can do, which \
 also indicates that\
there's one thing that the \
 system does, or a small\
number of things that the \
 system does, and a\
tagline to help the user \
 understand what the AI\
system is capable of doing, \
 which is followed\
by good and bad \
 examples from\
existing interactions. \
 the 2024 Gen AI paper is\
taking an analogous format, \
 although the specific\
examples are missing. Not \
 necessarily because the\
authors would be lazy or \
 couldn't be bothered to add\
them, but I think because \
 there might not be enough\
canonical approaches to \
 include yet. So, in their\
case, notice also how they're \
 talking about designing\
for different things, for \
 mental models in this case,\
and how it's important \
 to communicate how to\
work effectively with the \
 system, not necessarily\
what the system can do, but \
 how the human can work with\
the system effectively, \
 considering the\
user's background and \
 goals, and then they\
have some sub-guidance \
 that we can look\
into during the LGTs. \
 So, what I tried doing is\
pull out two interesting \
 comparisons between what\
seems to be underpinning \
 some of these guidelines.\
So, the 2019 ones, \
 the deep learning ones,\
are really focused on \
 making AI behaviour\
predictable and consistent. \
 It's about helping understand\
the users understand \
 when the AI would act, what\
it would do, why, and the \
 assumption there is that\
AI systems should behave \
 deterministically, so that\
there might be a decision that's \
 being made and that decision\
should be made repeatedly \
 in the same way or at\
least following some rules. \
 So some of the\
guidelines for example is \
 made clear why the\
system did what it did. \
 Whereas the Gen AI systems\
tend to, or at least the \
 guidelines that IBM has\
selected, tend to really embrace \
 the notion of it being a\
generative variability. \
 You're generating lots of\
things rather than getting \
 one particular thing out.\
So the guidelines help users \
 manage and leverage the\
fact that generative AI will \
Timestamp 43 minutes produce lots of different\
things and that that might \
 actually be a good output\
so the idea here is that \
 for example you're supposed\
to leverage the fact that \
 you get multiple possible\
plausible outputs and that \
 you can explore a design space\
for example so this slide \
 amplifies this message\
right so on the left side \
 the deep learning systems a\
lot of the guidelines tend \
 to assume that the AI systems\
produce a recommendation \
 or some action that the\
users should either accept \
 or reject and that the AI\
output, the one AI output \
 that comes out, is either\
right or wrong or maybe it \
 might be imprecise to some\
extent. So the guidelines \
 are around supporting efficient\
correction and so forth. \
 Whereas the generative\
AI guidelines are really \
 much more focused about on\
the process of engagement \
 between the AI and the\
human. So it's talking about \
 exploration of possibility\
spaces, how users might be \
 supported in generating\
multiple options, and then \
Timestamp 44 minutes potentially explore and learn\
and find inspiration in what \
 the right output should be.\
So one of the guidelines \
 that I really like was\
help user craft effective \
 outcome specifications. So\
the idea here is that you're \
 actually working with the\
system to understand what \
 the output should be and\
how you want to evaluate it. \
 There's a short paper,\
which I haven't made as a \
 reading that you have to\
do. It's not a requirement, \
 but if you wanted to\
have a look at it, it's \
 interesting. It's an extended\
abstract, so it's not really \
 peer-reviewed paper, but\
someone has gone in and \
 tried to extract the common\
patterns of how people \
 are now building with\
LLMs, and the standard \
 promptings, one, there's four\
or five different visualizations \
 like this. It's a very\
short paper for five \
 pages, so if you're\
interested, at least having a \
 quick look at what people\
thought in January last year \
 are the common patterns\
and practices is quite \
 interesting, and it might\
have changed since, but it \
 will still be quite\
interesting to have a look at. \
 Finally, here's a blog\
post which is required \
 reading, and it's not\
awfully short, but it's also \
 not awfully long, And what\
I'll try and do in the \
 last couple of slides is\
to really pull out the key \
 ideas that I want you to\
focus on. I won't give \
 you all the content, but\
I'll just point you to \
 the places which I think\
are interesting and why \
 I'm sharing this blog post\
as one of the readings. \
 So the whole idea is about \
 building with AI as agents. \
 And Anthropic kind of\
differentiates between the \
 building blocks, workflows\
and agents. And I think \
 that's what I'd really want\
you to be able to talk about \
 and think about. What is\
the difference between \
 these three things and how\
would you use them in your \
 systems? And it's also\
one of the things that you \
 will have to do as part\
of the SGTs. We will be \
 building systems like\
this. So the idea is that a \
 building block is just an\
agent that might use, sorry, \
Timestamp 46 minutes is like an LLM call that\
might use tools and get some \
 sort of input and get some\
sort of output. So that's \
 the core little Lego\
break that you might have. \
 A workflow, there's multiple\
versions of the workflow, \
 so do go into how a\
workflow would look like, so \
 do go into the blog post,\
but a workflow is a series \
 of predetermined paths\
that the LLMs might take, \
 right? So it might be\
that you have some input \
 coming in, you do a call,\
you get an output, then you \
 have some traditional\
system making a selection \
 whether the output is good\
or bad, and if it's good, \
 then you might have a couple\
more LLM calls, and then \
 some transformed data\
comes up as the output. so \
 it's kind of very linear\
process, there's no cycles. \
 That's one of the options.\
Do have a look at the three \
 other ones that, the three\
other patterns or templates \
 for word close that\
Anthropic is talking about. \
 Finally, we have\
agents, and I think the \
 difference here that you\
really should look at is, \
 is this feedback loop,\
right? So the idea is \
 that an agent is something\
that is starting, \
 engages in reasoning and\
planning, and the way in which \
 the system engages within\
the problem is not fully \
 determined before. So LLMs\
essentially take some of \
 the decision power of which\
action should be done, \
 which tools should be used,\
and how long they should be \
 used for. Again, there's\
so much more depth in the \
 blog post, please go and read\
it, But that big distinction \
 between an agent as\
something that's repeated and \
 does some of the design\
characteristics of what it \
 means to build it, workflow\
as something that's relatively \
 simple, and then building\
blocks as something that \
 is just, like, the individual\
calls and how you think \
 about those, I think those\
will be really key concepts \
 for you, for the rest of\
the LGTs and SGTs, too. \
 so just to wrap up in\
previous week we talked about \
 mental models and cognition\
then we talked about how \
 these mental models and\
cognition kind of have already \
 led into the usability goals\
and usability heuristics \
 as patterns of engaging\
and solving design problems \
 and questioning whether your\
system runs into any sort \
 of design errors in the pre\
-gen era and those are really \
 well specified remember\
how detailed the individual \
 guidelines have been and\
so then what we started \
 doing towards the end and we\
will kind of keep on coming \
 back to you throughout the\
course isn't thinking well \
 well how does this traditional\
model of designing for \
 usability or user experience\
and so on apply to AI \
 systems which are much newer\
and we have much kind of \
 less detailed frameworks\
around both in terms of the \
 deep learning traditional\
decision curation models, as \
Timestamp 49 minutes well as the generative AI\
models that are coming up. \
 This slide is here again\
just from the first week to \
 indicate how by now you should\
be able to quite cleanly \
 sort out the information\
that you're getting and \
 understand how much of the\
usability actually does \
 apply to generative AI systems\
too. So the idea is that \
 all of those usability\
goals will likely be still \
 valid for gen AI systems or\
deep learning AI systems as \
 well. It's just that these\
types of techniques have \
 some additional guidelines\
on top because it's harder \
 to deploy or design these\
tools with technology that \
 kind of quite literally\
answers back in this case. \
 So this then takes us to\
next week. And next week \
 you'll start thinking\
about what does it mean to \
 understand requirements in\
human AI systems so we'll \
 start talking about design\
thinking and the individual \
 steps that you take in\
this as well as start \
 understanding what does it\
mean that people need something \
 how would we collect that\
information how do we \
 design it and so forth so\
I hope this has been useful \
 and I look forward to\
seeing you in the LGT's bye }