{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww38200\viewh19980\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Timestamp 0 Hi everyone, so welcome to this \
 week of the Human\
-Centered AI class. \
 Today is the second week\
where we're going to \
 talk about Human-Centered\
AI as a design process. \
 And specifically today\
we're going to focus \
 on prototyping Human\
-Centered AI systems. \
 To give you a bit of an\
overview, the purpose of this \
 week is to give you the\
basic resources so you can \
 explore a prototyping method\
of your choice. So it's going \
 to be quite a short video,\
unlike last week. Today \
 is going to be quite a short\
video because when it comes \
 to prototyping, doing is\
the best kind of thinking. \
 And the main aim, basically,\
is to help you understand \
 why we prototype and what\
are the key principles. \
 So specifically, we're\
going to have this lecture \
 is going to be, has three\
learning goals divided \
 in three parts, more or\
less. The first one where \
 we're going to understand\
the basic goal of \
 prototyping, which is about\
maximizing the rate of \
 learning by minimizing the\
time to try out new ideas. \
 We're going to learn\
some conceptual ideas in \
 prototyping, like the purpose\
of prototypes, shallow, \
 deep, low fidelity, high\
fidelity ones, and Wizard of \
 Oz approaches. And then\
I'm going to present to you \
 some examples of AI-specific\
prototyping techniques, \
 like Wizard of Oz is one\
of those, for example. \
 so coming back to the last\
week when we talked about \
 designing human AI systems\
as a process, I showed you \
 this kind of diagram of the\
double diamond. We talked \
 last week about discovering\
requirements and \
 empathizing with our users\
to defining problems that are \
 meaningful to solve. This\
week we are on the actual \
 second diamond where we're\
talking about developing. \
 Developing and delivering\
solutions which \
 we're going to keep on\
testing iteratively. \
 In the other diagrams that\
you were introduced to \
 is the phases unsurprisingly\
called prototyping \
 and testing. We're going\
to talk about these two, \
 one this week and one next\
week. Here we're talking \
 about developing and here is\
the sketching, deciding and \
 prototyping parts of Google's\
design sprint process. \
 Okay, but first, you\
might all have an \
 intuitive idea of what\
a prototype is or isn't, \
 but I think it might\
be good to define \
 what it is using the\
handbook of the HCI. \
 so what are prototypes\
prototype is one manifestation \
 of a design that allows\
stakeholders so people \
 are relevant to your\
design to interact with it \
 and to explore its suitability\
it is limited that's \
 important in that a prototype\
will usually emphasize \
 one set of product\
characteristics and they \
 emphasize others so\
prototypes don't do absolutely \
 everything but they\
emphasize specific aspects of \
 your system that you actually\
want to test with users, \
 for instance, or you want\
to sketch them out by \
 yourself to get feedback\
from you or from others. \
 And with this definition,\
prototypes can be \
 anything, as you can imagine.\
They can be a paper-based \
 storyboard all the way\
through a complex system \
 software. It can be a\
cardboard mock-up or a \
 pressed piece of metal\
if we're talking about \
 physical things. And the\
purpose here of prototypes \
 is to help users envision\
the important things of \
 interactions with these\
newly designed systems. \
 So again, these are early\
models of interaction. \
 They're not full\
implementations. They focus \
 experience on experience\
over the algorithm, \
 for instance, in the\
early stages. And they're \
 useful for iteration,\
validation, as well as user \
 testing that we're going\
to discuss as well. \
 And they're very closely\
related to how you can \
Timestamp 4 minutes include users in your\
design process. So the \
 things we were talking\
about last week, very \
 often we use prototypes\
as probes, for instance, \
 to give them to users to\
give you feedback on your \
 idea, not necessarily\
to give you feedback on \
 very minuscule parts of\
the idea, but on the whole \
 kind of problem that the\
users might be facing. \
 So why prototype? Prototypes\
can help you think through \
 and understand the possibilities\
of your design space \
 and they help you attest\
assumptions about your user, \
 their experience or even\
if the technologies that \
 you're considering are\
actually viable. So this is \
 actually quite crucial here.\
first because they're about \
 yourself so when you start\
prototyping you can actually \
 test your own ideas and\
think through what you have \
 been discussing or thinking\
about doing and the second \
 part is you can also they're\
very social sociable in \
 the sense that you can use\
them to to ask other users \
 or other people around you\
feedback on the ideas that \
 you have might have only\
had in your mind until then. \
 Now specifically when we're \
 talking about\
human-centered AI, \
 why would you choose to\
prototype? So you might want \
 to make sure that you want\
to be able to align the \
 system behavior with the\
user expectations, which is \
 quite obvious and it's\
also something that we have \
 discussed last week. You\
might want to catch usability \
 issues early, so you make\
kind of mismatches and \
 mental models you might\
have discussed that might be \
 something you might be\
easily to find through \
 prototypes and you might also\
want to explore ethical trust \
 and explainability concerns\
before implementation \
 and that crucially comes\
back to this type of \
 prototyping where it would\
be more critical design or \
 speculative prototyping\
which we can discuss a little \
 bit as well so when we talk\
about traditional AI if \
 you want to kind of compare\
this like how you've been \
Timestamp 6 minutes doing things potentially\
until now and how will you \
 make your process more\
user centric centered like \
 your traditional ai might be\
model centric whereas your \
 human centered would be\
human centric a bit obvious \
 in the traditional ai\
you might be putting your \
 data first like you have a\
large data so you might be \
 working from the assumption\
that it's a useful \
 one whereas in human\
centered ai you would \
 want to see what are the\
needs of the people that \
 and then you would go\
find the data for that \
 Traditionally, AI would be\
evaluated by accuracy of \
 your model, for instance,\
whereas in human-centered \
 AI, you might evaluate by\
usability, how usable the \
 results are, the models are,\
the results, how trustworthy \
 they are, or how fair, and\
other topics like this, \
 which we will discuss in\
the upcoming weeks as well. \
 now to come a little bit\
into some uh terminology to \
 help us all communicate in\
the same way they're uh more \
 or less like prototypes are\
usually divided into two \
 types of prototypes these\
are the most common kind of \
 division you would talk\
about when you talk about \
 prototyping which would be\
low and high fidelity ones so \
 low fidelity prototypes are\
they have some advantages \
 and disadvantages, both of\
them, right? So low-fidelity \
 prototypes would have lower\
development costs, would \
 be easier to evaluate multiple\
concepts very quickly. \
 They're less constrained,\
so they're more \
 conceptual rather than\
actually the nitty \
 -gritty of the\
implementation. And they \
 explore high-level\
design layout options. \
 But at the same time,\
there's not really a \
 possibility for error\
checking. There is little \
 detail. They cannot\
necessarily test dynamic \
 layout although that's\
changing with some \
 of the tools i'm going\
to introduce to you \
 where and these are\
things like i'm going to \
 discuss give you some\
examples of low fidelity \
 prototypes but these\
are things like paper \
 prototypes or mock-ups are\
low fidelity prototypes \
Timestamp 8 minutes whereas high fidelity\
prototypes are at least \
 partially functional\
they're often interactive \
 they have like a content\
like effective preview \
 of the layout you the\
look and feel resembles \
 that of the final product,\
even though it might \
 not be the actual final\
one you might be giving. \
 And it's often used\
as a marketing or \
 sales tool where\
you want to kind \
 of introduce it to\
potential clients. \
 The disadvantages of high\
fidelity prototypes, however, \
 is that, as you can imagine,\
it takes kind of time \
 and resource intensive to\
develop them. It's much \
 faster to sketch out some\
boxes rather than to design \
 a proper layout. They're\
not really effective for \
 requirements gathering in the\
early stage of ideation and \
 they may confuse stakeholders\
or your users, potential \
 users that you're testing\
them with or you're \
 showing them to, that this\
is how your final prototype \
 would look like, what the\
final product would look like, \
 rather than allowing them\
to imagine it as a prototype \
 that they can actually\
engage and critique with. \
 so looking a little bit on\
the level of fidelity as \
 we were talking about you\
might have sketches ideas \
 and this is a really interesting\
diagram right because \
 it shows you if you see\
here you have on the on \
 the bottom you have\
different types of prototypes \
 and what they communicate\
so sketches wireframes a \
 prototype as you an interactive\
one as you would say \
 here or the final design\
and then on the top on the y \
 -axis you have the commitment\
and level of fidelity \
 so when you make a sketch\
you it has kind of low \
 commitment in the sense that\
you don't mind to it took \
 you five minutes to make\
or three minutes to draw so \
 it's very easy to just\
throw it away and make a new \
 one or make a series of\
sketches to be able to kind \
 of explain the possibilities\
that you might have so \
 this is a good way to communicate\
ideas or possibilities \
 that you are able to\
pursue because it has kind \
 of low commitment and you\
can iterate on that quite \
 quite easily you can make\
wireframes as the next \
 stage where this would\
be good for concept \
 validation where let's say\
you have some idea of an \
 app you want to create\
with a AI messaging \
 function, for instance,\
then you can easily create \
 the structure and the\
overall flow of how your \
 app might work. And that\
would allow you to also \
 do quite quick iterations.\
So it's also, again, \
 quite low commitment in\
the sense that you can \
 draw something like that\
quite quickly and then \
 show it to people to get\
feedback on the concept. \
 When you start refining\
that, you might make a high \
 fidelity prototype this\
is what the prototype kind \
 of refers to here the word\
prototype refers to here a \
 high fidelity one where\
you would have like the \
 structure like you have in\
the wire frame you would have \
 the flow and you would\
have some details even if \
 the the details are not\
like the final visual design \
 but it might even have some\
interactivity for instance \
 like if you click a button\
then something actually \
 might a new page might\
appear or something like this \
 and that would be for\
refinement, also testing some \
 more complicated features\
that are hard to test \
 kind of individually. And\
finally, like you have your \
 final design, your fully\
branded and fully developed \
 product that you can, as\
we will learn next week, \
 you can actually do some\
usability testing to it, \
 where this is the final\
actual kind of iteration where \
 you have everything\
fully developed and then \
 you can actually give\
it to people to get \
 feedback upon and do\
a b testing or do any \
 kind of kind of more\
wide scale testing or \
 evaluation that's the\
word i'm looking for \
 for wide scale\
evaluation of your design \
 the point here of this\
graph is that if you want to \
 just ideate or you want\
to test what kind of ideas \
Timestamp 12 minutes to use the point is to\
make sketches are actually \
 up to wireframes you're\
not going to make a fully \
 -fledged interactive prototype\
just to test an idea. \
 So you have to think\
about strategically what \
 point in time are you\
going to use what kind of \
 prototyping or sketching\
or wireframe technique. \
 Okay, so let's go into this \
 within a bit more detail now. \
 Let's talk about low\
-fidelity prototypes. \
 Okay, so one type of low\
-fidelity prototypes are \
 wireframes. And wireframing\
is a process where \
 designers basically draw\
overviews of interactive products \
 to see the structure\
and the flow of possible \
 design solutions so here\
you see an example of that \
 in myro in a myro board\
where the big kind of \
 square with the x implies\
that there is an image there \
 and then there is some\
text and there's a headline \
 and then it kind of\
tests out like draws out \
 sketches out different\
layouts for this i guess this \
 is a normal website kind\
of thing and then And you \
 can give them to other\
people to actually test to \
 see what makes sense to\
use, to get feedback from. \
 So wireframes are primarily\
tools for collaboration \
 towards making\
better prototypes and \
 products faster. So before\
you start drawing the \
 actual content you're going\
to use, you're probably \
 going to start doing\
something like this. \
 And there are tools that\
you can use to do these \
 wireframes. this is one it's\
quite already it's called \
 balsamic where you have these\
kind of little boxes and \
 elements that you can\
just kind of drag around \
 and make your your your\
page like or your app \
 so another typical way that\
you can prototype things \
 low fidelity and cheap\
and quite fast is paper \
 prototyping as you can\
see here you mostly have \
 potentially wire frames or\
even things that you have \
 printed out um to like\
text you have printed out \
 and then you actually\
you sketch out potential \
 concepts or flows or ideas\
on paper but then the \
 important part here is that\
you actually test those \
 with your potential users\
so your user you give this \
 to your potential user\
and then you ask them to \
 give you feedback about\
how does that seem to them \
 in research it's also quite \
 typical to to see these kind of \
 fake cardboard ipads or\
tablets or or phones where you \
 would kind of insert these\
paper prototypes and you \
 would allow user to to\
play with them in a way and \
 it's one might ask like why\
would you do this in paper \
 because it comes closer to\
the experience of what the \
 the participant might be\
doing so if you have it in \
 a in a way that they are\
familiar with like the way \
 that they might be end up\
using it in reality also then \
 it's more chance that the\
feedback that you're going \
 to get is more authentic\
and also because it looks \
 so low stakes like it's\
just hand drawn with pens or \
 printed out quickly with\
cheap paper then research has \
 shown that there's more\
chance that your users you're \
 you're testing with that\
they feel like they have \
 more agency to change or\
to comment or to critique \
 these ideas because they're\
obviously not fully fledged \
 in this project and nowadays\
it's kind of more common \
 to do these kinds of prototypes\
digitally just because \
 it takes it would take the\
similarly amount of time \
 to similar amount of time\
to to draw and cut out and \
 create these paper paper\
prototypes than to create three \
 four frames in Miro and\
put some blocks there that \
 connect we also have for\
for these kind of low-stake \
 prototyping you can use Miro\
for wireframes but we're also \
 going to be talking about\
Figma for for having some \
 fast interactions so what you\
also have are click-through \
 prototypes as I mentioned\
before even though paper \
 prototyping can be very\
powerful nowadays there are \
 also other ways to do quite\
fast prototypes that are easy \
 low stakes prototypes that\
you can test with users \
 so like click through\
prototypes with platforms like \
 figma or azure or balsamic\
as we talked about but we're \
 going to talk about figma\
in specific so you see here \
 what a quite easy it\
doesn't require really much \
 programming It's just you\
connect these little arrows to \
 different frames and you can\
actually make a prototype. \
 So for instance, \
 you can have boxes, \
 like you create boxes\
like this and with \
 a simulating button.\
So you can see it's \
 very, very simple.\
It's very low fidelity. \
 And by connecting it to\
and clicking through the \
 interaction details in the\
prototype phase, then you can \
 quickly make a prototype\
like what you see on the \
 on the right where you\
press this button that this \
 button and it comes on the\
screen becomes all blue and \
 you press the red button\
and the screen becomes all \
 red so the the point\
here being i just want to \
 demonstrate that uh figma is\
quite fast and figma and other \
 tools nowadays are quite\
fast and quite easy to to \
 generate interactive prototypes\
that you can literally \
 test on your mobile on\
your screen so also on your \
 mobile devices because\
they're apps that you can \
 actually simulate that and\
you can evaluate your ideas \
 quite quickly and you can\
just draw very low level \
 boxes like wireframe style\
to to express your ideas \
 so let's talk a little\
bit about high fidelity \
 prototypes so as we said\
high fidelity prototypes are \
 something you would do\
later on you would probably \
 start with something low\
fidelity you would prototype \
 your ideas you would try\
to test your assumptions \
 quite quickly and you would\
find specific assumptions \
 to test you would make\
something you would show it \
 you You would use maybe\
Wizard of Oz or you would use \
 like click through\
prototypes and then once you \
 have a clearer idea of what\
you want to create, then \
 you will create more high\
fidelity prototypes and \
 then there are two types of\
high fidelity prototypes. \
 You can do vertical\
prototyping or horizontal \
 prototyping and that's a\
little bit about the approach \
 you're taking. So with\
vertical prototyping, \
 you are basically focusing\
whatever is here as \
 a plus is fully implemented\
and whatever is X \
 is not implemented. So you\
see the visual language \
 here. So we're talking\
about the vertical \
 prototyping where only a\
few unselected functions \
 are actually being\
implemented so that you can \
 see quite realistic\
tasks. So, for instance, \
 if you are testing a new\
messaging app, perhaps the \
 messaging function works\
perfectly, but everything \
 else, messaging between\
friends works perfectly, but \
 everything else is kind\
of not really implemented \
 because it's beyond the\
point. You want to test the \
 specific function of that,\
of that specific feature. \
 horizontal prototyping on\
the other hand is when you \
 are all the visual parts\
of the user interface of an \
 application or a computer\
system are actually implemented \
 but they're all they're\
quite partially implemented \
 they they might be shallow\
like they might no data \
 might be processed for\
instance so in the in the \
 example of the of the\
messaging app perhaps all the \
 interface you see you can add\
friends you can you can click \
 through all the different\
buttons you see on your \
 high fidelity screen but\
nothing gets saved or no real \
 message gets sent at that\
moment so you're you're \
 basically testing different\
things in this case so coming \
 back to click-through\
prototypes like figma is \
 something that you will use\
quite a lot for your high \
 fidelity prototypes So we\
suggest that you start with Miro \
 to do your wireframes\
and then perhaps do small \
 prototypes, interactive ones\
in Figma to test some quick \
 assumptions. And then in\
the end you're going to have \
 a more complex Figma file\
with, as you can see, it \
 can become quite intense in\
terms of interactions and \
 buttons and all the\
possibilities that you can have. \
 Finally, something we\
haven't touched upon \
 but is actually also\
quite fundamental in human \
 -computer interaction\
is physical computing. \
 So there are quite a few\
platforms out there like \
 Arduinos, Raspberry\
Pis, 3D printing, laser \
 cutting. there are quite a\
lot of techniques now for \
 quickly creating form,\
prototypes that need, \
 that are three-dimensional,\
or that are interactive \
 in another way, with\
electronics for instance, \
 and this is a whole kind\
of research domain in \
 human-computer interaction,\
that includes also \
 different types of\
expertise than the digital \
 applications that we are\
working on right now. \
 So here you see some examples\
on the top left of an \
 Arduino that is actually\
being prototyped to make a \
 stopwatch. I think in this\
case it was prototyping a game. \
 on the bottom you see\
how exoskeleton might be \
 prototyped we're using 3d\
printing on the on the laser \
 you see with the hexagons\
is actually a laser \
 cutter that you can really\
quickly cut wood or vinyl \
 or not vinyl sorry wood\
or acrylic or other types \
 of materials that you\
can make quick and dirty \
 prototypes like the ones\
you see on top which is \
 actually an interactive\
lamp and physical computing \
 also allows for for things\
like tangible interfaces \
 and and like for museums or \
 for other settings like that \
 another very um useful\
tool for for low fidelity \
 prototyping is this is kind\
of related to low fidelity \
 prototyping because it has\
to do with the evaluation of \
 prototypes is wizard of oz\
prototyping and the wizard \
 of oz prototyping refers\
to the the wizard of oz uh \
 film where for those of\
you who who might have not \
 seen it there is this um\
seemingly powerful wizard that \
 knows everything and\
commands everyone whereas in \
Timestamp 24 minutes fact they find out that\
it's just a person behind a \
 behind a curtain kind of\
manipulating the scenes and \
 making it seem like it's a\
wizard a powerful wizard so \
 they take this analogy of\
the metaphor of you you make \
 something seem as it's\
more complicated than it \
 actually is in reality and\
we use that in technology so \
 this was the user wizard\
of testing for instance in \
 ibm when they were testing\
out the listening typewriter \
 which is really interesting\
if you think about where \
 we are right now in terms\
of technology this is from \
 1984 so they wanted to\
understand the experience of \
 being able to do speech to\
text systems so they had \
 a person in one room and\
they had a screen and they \
 were given a screen and a\
microphone and they were told \
 that if you speak into that\
microphone then that the \
 computer will magically\
or anyway would kind of \
 transcribe the speech into\
text and you would see that on \
 your computer so they wanted\
to test that experience \
 if it would make sense to\
do and but in reality they \
 didn't have the technology\
to be able to do that \
 so the wizard of oz did\
the wizard in this case was \
 another person behind the\
scenes in another room \
 that was actually typing\
out what they were hearing \
 from the um what they were\
hearing from the microphone \
 so the point here is\
that this is much lower \
 stakes this is low fidelity\
prototyping you can very \
 quickly test out ideas\
that you might either not \
 have the technology for at\
the moment or the technology \
 might be to might take\
some effort or some time \
 so much effort to make\
that you want to test the \
 experience of it before you\
actually implement it So \
Timestamp 26 minutes a lot of this literature\
on prototyping comes \
 from human-computer\
interaction, but in this \
 case, in this lecture,\
we want to look at how we \
 can prototype specifically\
AI kind of systems. \
 So we can use the\
same methods, and I \
 have some examples\
here, for instance. \
 So if you have like an AI\
use case of a recommender \
 system, then you can actually\
make a mock interface \
 with Figma or even with\
paper if you want to, \
 with fake suggestions\
and then give \
 that to the participants\
and your users \
 and kind of see\
how they respond. \
 If you want to have a use\
case, if you have a use case \
 of AI where they were\
talking about a chatbot or \
 some kind of LLM, for\
instance, then something before \
 you even try fine tuning or\
training it, then you can \
 actually do a Wizard of Oz\
with scripted responses and \
 see how they respond how\
people respond to it and \
 that would be especially the\
case for like niche domains \
 like for instance for a\
nursing AI app or a chatbot \
 or some kind of agent in\
a hotel for instance and \
 then it will make more sense\
to do it first with the \
 robots than actually building\
the model and then another \
 use case might be having\
a classifier UI where here \
 you might prototype it by\
adding kind of confidence \
 bars or explanation cards\
to actually give like some \
 background information\
to participants about \
 how how they how the\
system works for instance \
 so there are two main things\
to remember when we're \
 thinking about how to decide\
the prototype like each \
 prototype you create you\
have to remember what \
 our assumptions are your\
prototype testing and what \
 does this mean for how and\
why you prototype so you're \
Timestamp 28 minutes not gonna prototype in\
the same way every single \
 system you're gonna choose\
sometimes low fidelity \
 sometimes deep prototype\
sometimes shallow prototypes \
 and you're gonna kind of\
decide which ones are more \
 relevant to your context\
depending on the assumptions \
 that you're trying to\
test so with a chatbot \
 you might want to test the\
interaction or the fact \
 that do you want to personalize\
it or do you want to \
 have like a human-like\
agent talking and then you \
 would test it in that\
way for instance you will \
 prototype it with different\
types of characters so yeah \
 remember that when you're\
working on your projects }