{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0  Hi, and welcome to the\
Human AI Interaction course. \
 This will be a highly\
interactive experience where \
 you'll learn how to\
envision, design and test \
 interactive systems, with a\
specific focus on how AI, in \
 the many shapes and forms\
that it now takes, can \
 serve as a design material,\
as something that you can \
 work with and design and\
make available to people. \
 This is a new course,\
and one that's based \
 around design thinking,\
so I will do my best \
 really shape this\
around the interests and \
 needs of those of you\
who end up taking this \
 class. In our previous\
bachelor's module, \
 Human-Computer Interaction,\
we've had students go off \
 to the industry as designers\
or UX researchers, as \
 well as continue with masters\
and PhDs in the area of \
 Human- Computer Interaction.\
So whether you're just \
 browsing through during the\
induction week or you've \
 already committed to taking\
this, I really hope that \
 you'll find the material\
interesting and also potentially \
 directly applicable to\
your next career steps. \
Timestamp 1 minute I'm Peter Slovak and I'll\
be your lecturer this term \
 together with Dariana\
who's my PhD student and \
 who will be working with\
you during the small group \
 tutorials which are\
straight after the two-hour \
 lectures so I hope that\
most of the times I might be \
 able to join in for those\
as well. Just to give you \
 a sense about who I am, I'm\
a reader in Human-Computer \
 Interaction here at King's\
College London at the \
 Informatics department but\
I've also been fortunate \
 to have a couple of\
additional visiting positions \
 that kind of fall out\
of my own research and a \
 fellowship that I hold,\
including one at the Child and \
 Adults in Psychiatry here\
at King's, where most \
 of my group is currently\
based, as well as a couple \
 of visiting position hats\
at University of Oxford. \
 In case anyone's interested\
in the type of work that \
 I do for my research, it's\
really close to what we will \
 be talking about here, or\
at least some aspects of \
 what we'll be talking about\
in the course, it's really \
 looking at how would you\
use generative AI to develop \
 systems that can support\
mental health or well-being. \
 And I just put a link to\
a talk that I gave just a \
 couple of weeks ago for\
you to potentially have a \
 look if you want to. It's\
obviously totally optional. \
 The ends of this course\
are mainly to give you \
 both the theory as well\
as practical tools so that \
 you can envision, design,\
prototype, and evaluate \
 interactive systems that\
are supposed to help \
 humans do whatever they\
want to do. Most of the \
 material will be grounded\
in talking about how to \
 design desktop and mobile\
apps, but we'll also \
 touch on some of the\
more novel and emerging \
 interaction modes, such as\
voice-based interaction. \
 All the material will\
be infused with a tidal \
 wave of generative AI\
that is now emerging \
 over the last couple\
of years, and which \
 promises an entirely\
new way of engaging with \
 technology as well as\
approaches to design. \
 As you can imagine, the\
speed and novelty is both \
 a blessing and a curse. It\
is an absolutely exciting \
Timestamp 3 minutes time within HCI where\
many of the approaches are \
 being re-envisioned nearly\
literally as we speak. \
 But it's also somewhat\
frustrating and confusing as \
 there yet to emerge any\
hard-wired rules about what \
 are the right ways to\
design with this technology. \
 This is the reason for us\
to focus the material in \
 this course in three main\
areas. The first is what \
 you might call a traditional\
interaction design. \
 These might be the rules\
and design principles that \
 we will be underpinning most\
of the apps and websites \
 that you might have seen\
perhaps three to four \
 years ago, and that has a\
long history for HCI at least, \
 which goes back for perhaps\
10-15 years. The second \
 area is then thinking about\
specifically what does \
 it mean to design with\
traditional deep learning, \
 where you as a designer\
might be working with machine \
 learning approaches and\
algorithms for which you've \
 selected most of the data\
for or where your team \
 has selected most of the\
data and where you're still \
 doing most of the model\
training as an organization. \
 So that's where the\
questions of bias and \
Timestamp 4 minutes fairness and trust\
are really crucial. \
 Finally we'll be exploring\
the emerging new world of \
 generative AI and the design\
with foundational models \
 where you're working with\
these big entities that \
 have cost ridiculous amounts\
of money and that are in \
 that case outside of your\
control. You might fine \
 -tune, but most of the time\
you're unable to really \
 engage deeply with what is\
happening within the foundation \
 model, and where we as\
a field are still trying \
 to find out what to do and\
how to design with these. \
 Now, human AI interaction\
and interaction design \
 more broadly is a bit like\
programming. There are some \
 useful theories you should\
know, but what mostly \
 matters is really learning\
by doing and being able \
 to apply whatever the basic\
theory is in practice. \
 Part of this is that human\
-AI interaction involves \
 humans, and AI, that's\
uncertain and stochastic, \
 so it's pretty hard to\
figure out some unbreakable \
 rules of how humans and\
AI operate in these ways. \
 So what you should expect\
from this course is that \
Timestamp 5 minutes you'll be actively working\
with the concepts, and that \
 I expect that you'll be\
able to apply these into new \
 situations, rather than just\
do a bit of rote learning \
 or learn a couple of proofs\
and then repeat whatever \
 was said exactly in the\
lecture during the exam. \
 I don't know if you've\
already seen this Bloom's \
 taxonomy of learning, but\
my aim is that most of \
 the time we'll be operating\
on these top four layers. \
 I'll assume that you\
remember and understand \
 as a matter of principle,\
and we'll be focusing \
 mostly on helping you\
understand how to apply and \
 work with the concepts that\
we'll be talking about. \
 Given that this is going\
to be a very fast whistle \
 -stop tour of HCI, where we\
essentially have one semester \
 and one module to go all\
over all of the basics that \
 might normally be done\
in more depth and across \
 several courses in a more\
focused bachelor program will \
 be relying on quite simple\
design thinking model from \
 Stanford. I personally\
quite like it and I think it \
 does a great job at helping\
people get to grips with \
 the ideas of what does it\
mean to design and how to \
Timestamp 6 minutes get started with the design\
process. While it might \
 not encompass all of the\
approaches and methods that \
 you would want to do as an\
HCI researcher It seems to \
 also be closest to what would\
be happening in commercial \
 practice and at least the\
best thing we could do \
 when we're trying to fit\
into these 10 or 11 weeks. \
 What this means is that\
we'll be going through \
 each of these phases in\
turn, introducing the \
 theory as well as range of\
tools that you could use \
 to deliver each step.\
Again, the focus will be \
 on the different aspects,\
if you can remember, \
 basic interaction design, \
 deep learning, as well as\
the generative AI learning. \
 And we will also be helping\
you immediately apply \
 this on your coursework in\
your teams and get feedback \
 on this as part of the\
weekly small group tutorials. \
 So let's now move on\
to the first actual \
 concept and content\
of the course. \
 We'll start by talking about\
the core idea that will \
Timestamp 7 minutes be following us throughout\
the semester, the notion \
 of interaction design.\
So in the next 10 minutes \
 or so, I want to walk you\
through the definitions \
 as well as, perhaps more\
importantly, the examples \
 of what interaction design\
means, where it's useful, \
 and what kind of proceeds\
are useful to guide us. \
 As a reminder, we've already\
talked about the range \
 of HCI areas and types\
of applications that \
 interaction design\
encompasses, but it is actually \
 even broader than that.\
Feel free to stop the video \
 if you want to, have a\
detailed look, as I won't \
 bore everyone by stepping\
through this one by one. \
 However, I do want to point\
out two observations that \
 might not be immediately\
apparent, especially if \
 we're coming into what is\
interaction design from the \
 viewpoint of, you know,\
let's go and design an app. \
 So the first one is that\
interaction design is actually \
 bordering and overlapping\
with many areas that we \
 wouldn't have thought of,\
including data visualization \
 or architecture or industrial\
design. All of these \
 have some aspects of designing\
interactions, whether that \
 is the ways in which people\
walk through buildings \
Timestamp 8 minutes or where they meet and how\
they meet, or whether it is \
 about how does the visualization\
become understandable \
 and how does it make sense\
and how do people interact \
 with it. The second key\
point that I'd like to \
 highlight and that we'll keep\
on coming back to as well, \
 is how all of interaction\
design is subsumed by the \
 broader notion of user\
experience. Which kind of makes \
 sense, as designing\
interactions is just one part of \
 thinking about what does a\
user experience look like. \
 We can have similar maps\
that look at AI and human \
 -centred AI too. I've just put\
in this figure from a recent \
 paper in one of the leading\
conferences in the field \
 that really looks at the\
different types and ways and \
 approaches that we might\
take to thinking about AI. \
 Again, have a look at\
this, we might come back to \
 this image later in the\
course. I just wanted to show \
 at this moment how broad\
the area is and also how \
 focused we will have to\
be as we step through it. \
 But really, interaction\
design can be seen as anything \
 that involves technology\
of any certain people. \
 So that might include\
thinking about the interaction \
 of how we manage a flow\
of people at the border, \
 what do you ask them to\
do, where are they supposed \
 to stand, how do they\
interact with the technology \
 and other humans, or\
the ways in which every \
 single piece of a car\
dashboard is designed to really \
 optimize the interaction\
with the driver. Our \
 lecture next week will get\
into some of the design \
 decisions and theories that\
underpin such approaches. \
 But let's start\
with a definition. \
 According to our textbooks, \
 the interaction design is\
the design of interactive \
 products to support the\
way people communicate \
 and interact in their\
everyday and working lives. \
 Now that sounds really,\
really broad, but kind of \
 makes sense if what we're trying\
to do is define something, \
 a field, that can span\
both how do we design a \
 border control to core\
dashboards, to apps, to everything \
 else. So now let's have\
a look at a few examples \
 of what a good and bad\
designs look like, to get a \
 better sense of what this\
breadth can actually mean. \
 So, this is an example of a\
bad interaction design, and \
 it's probably bad because\
if I say you're driving \
 past this, and it's Wednesday\
4pm, and you're trying to \
 park, are you allowed to\
park? Are you not allowed to \
 park? No one knows. Well,\
you might know after you look \
 at this for a long time,\
but that's what makes it a \
 bad interaction Now, let's\
have a look at the same \
 information that is presented\
in a slightly different way. \
 Now, this could be\
considered a good interaction \
 design because if you're\
thinking about Wednesday 4pm, \
 well, it clearly is\
exactly the first time \
 when you're allowed to\
park that day after 7am. \
 Both of these pieces are\
trying to communicate \
 and enable people to\
interact with their \
 environments, but they're\
doing it in different ways. \
 And part of what we're\
going to be learning \
 in this course is how\
do you get from a bad \
 one to a good one, and\
how do you recognize \
 which one's which as\
you engage with it. \
 So let's keep on going\
with the definitions. \
 If the definition is\
what we've already said, \
 what are the goals of\
interaction design? \
 As you could see from\
the previous example, \
 the goals could be that\
it's something that's \
 easy to learn, that\
it's something that's \
 effective to use, and\
that ideally provides \
 an enjoyable user\
experience, or at least one \
 that is not entirely\
and utterly dreadful. \
 So, let's just have\
a quick look back \
 at this image that\
we've had before. \
 The interaction design on\
the left side is neither \
 easy nor effective,\
nor does it provide an \
 enjoyable experience,\
unless you're the person \
 going around and handing\
out tickets to people. \
 The one on the right might\
not be enjoyable, but \
 at least it's something that\
visualizes and simplifies \
 the information well\
enough so that people \
Timestamp 12 minutes can do what they want to\
do, which in this case is \
 to decide whether they\
can park at a given time. \
 So if we try to move\
past the definition, \
 what could be the\
characteristics of what does \
 it mean to do interaction\
design? The first \
 characteristic is that\
design involves changing \
 situations by shaping\
or deploying artifacts. \
 So the little things that\
show when and how you're \
 supposed to park, that is an\
example of an artifact. So \
 we're changing the situation\
that someone sees by, \
 for example, moving from\
left design to the right one. \
 It's about exploring\
possible futures, so often \
 there's a problem,\
there's a terrifyingly bad \
 version of showing someone\
when they're allowed \
 to park, and thinking\
about what else could \
 we do about this bad\
future and turn it into a \
 possible future, which\
is hopefully not as bad. \
 It's about framing the\
problem in parallel with \
 creating possible solutions.\
So framing the problem means \
 that we say, well, what's\
wrong about this is not \
Timestamp 13 minutes the choices about when and\
how people can park, but \
 the way in which those\
choices are being presented. \
 And it involves thinking\
through sketching and other \
 tangible representations.\
So perhaps as people were \
 moving from a bad design to a\
good design, they might have \
 had multiple ideas about\
how to do this. Many of them \
 would have been bad, and\
then they would have ended \
 up with the one that seems\
to be better than the rest. \
 And finally, \
 the design addresses\
instrumental, technical, \
 aesthetical, and ethical\
aspects throughout. \
 So what that means is that it's \
 really trying to be effective, \
 it's trying to address the\
pragmatics, pragmatics, \
 the technical issues of\
is it possible? It often \
 tries to be quite pretty,\
aesthetic, and very \
 importantly, it needs to be\
ethical. So we need to think \
 about how will people use\
it and why. If the right \
 design was something\
that was misleading, for \
 example, and we've deliberately\
designed it so that \
 people would think that\
they're allowed to park but \
 would end up getting a\
parking ticket, the ethical \
 aspect of that would be\
problematic. And, well, \
 that's what many sites,\
for example, do in terms of \
 dark patterns trying to\
force you to click through. \
 The idea is that if we're\
trying to do design, \
 we should try and keep\
it as ethical as well. \
 So in this sense, we're\
already all interaction \
 designers, because we\
continuously shape and \
 create spaces in which\
we work, live and play. \
 My workspace might not\
look exactly like this one, \
 yours probably doesn't\
either, but I'm sure you've \
 deliberately moved things\
around to ensure that it \
 supports you in whatever\
it is that you want to do. \
 So what I want to do now\
is to show you how we are \
 already highly attuned to design\
aspects within the context \
 of what we might normally\
do, our usual activities. \
 That is, we already,\
all of you, already \
 think like designers\
without realizing it. \
 And the way how I want to\
do this is that there's \
 this example of an architect,\
artist, who's built \
Timestamp 15 minutes these objects that are called\
the uncomfortable and I \
 really invite you to visit\
the website but they're \
 that are just really beautiful\
and exciting so let's \
 have a look at two of\
the objects that Katarina \
 developed now these objects\
are beautiful but also \
 quite disconcertain you\
can see what they refer to \
 pair of wellies and a fork\
but our minds automatically \
 simulate how the interactions\
that are enabled by \
 these objects would look\
like and how they would \
 just go entirely wrong and\
it's clear that they would \
 not lead to the goals that\
we might have. Wellies \
 are about getting our feet\
to remain dry whereas these \
 wellies kind of seem to\
do most of the work but \
 the cross with sandals\
just like totally spots \
 everything that the rest of\
the object is trying to do. \
 Similarly for the fork,\
part of what makes fork a \
 fork is the fact that we\
can hold it nicely and \
 that it fits into our\
arm and that it allows us \
 to have some leverage\
against the food. Now this is \
 exactly the kind of\
thinking that designers will \
Timestamp 16 minutes have for apps, for human\
AI collaborations too. \
 It's about thinking\
how does the object \
 that you just created,\
how will that enable \
 people to do the\
activities that they \
 want. So you already\
think like designers. \
 Let's have a look at this\
example. This might be \
 slightly less obvious for\
those of you who wear glasses \
 you will automatically\
probably know what's wrong \
 but for those of you don't\
it looks very pretty it's \
 it's a beautiful pair of\
glasses it looks a bit \
 like owl for me it reminds\
me of harry potter just \
 because my daughter kept on\
watching that but the problem \
 here is that if you\
imagine what it would feel \
 like to put these glasses\
on your head then you'll \
 realize that that one single\
point exactly where all \
 of the weight of the glasses\
is being put is entirely \
 wrong, right? That's what\
makes it uncomfortable. \
 We will know that the\
interaction will not be nice. \
 And our brains already help\
us see this and simulate \
 all those interactions.\
That is interaction design. \
 My favorite simplification\
though is that \
 interaction design is\
really designed for \
 people using technologies\
to undertake activities \
 in contexts. Now\
what does that mean? \
 So it's not just the\
interface or the artifact that \
 we design, it's also about\
how people will use it, \
 remember Douglas Glasses,\
and what they assume it is \
 for, remember the well-ease.\
In other words, what the \
 affordances that the object\
provides you with are. \
 We will talk about that concept\
more in the next segment, \
 but for now let's just\
try thinking about what \
 is wrong with this design.\
Why would it be dangerous? \
 doesn't seem to be\
problematic, right? Canola \
 cooking spray probably means\
it's oil. You can spray \
 it on the pan, like, it\
might blow up if you put \
 it close to the flame,\
but a lot of things do. \
 So, like, what is the\
problem with this? \
 Now, imagine you\
also now have this. \
 The issue is not the\
individual objects. It's the \
 idea that we now have\
two things that look very \
 similar, and if they were\
standing next to each other, \
 next to a hob, you might\
end up spraying fly insect \
 killer instead of your\
oil, or vice versa, spray \
 oil all over the kitchen\
to try and kill them all. \
 How about this one? \
 We might have a pan\
that's trying to do \
 some education\
lesson, but the moment \
 people start using it,\
the problems arise. \
 So, this is what we\
mean when we talk \
 about designing for\
people using technologies \
 to undertake\
activities in contexts, \
 where the interaction\
design is really about not \
 just the object that\
you're designing, but also \
 where it's going to be\
used, how people will end \
 up using it, and what are\
the other things in the \
 environment that you have\
to be cautious of, as \
 and when you're thinking\
about your technologies. \
Timestamp 19 minutes So what I'd like to leave\
you with for this segment \
 is really that I'd love\
for you to remember this \
 idea of interaction design\
being a way of thinking \
 about designing for\
people who are using \
 technologies, which might\
be artifacts that might not \
 necessarily be digital, to\
undertake specific activities \
 in specific contexts.\
And what we're going to \
 be talking about, so all\
of human AI interaction \
 and user-centred design\
is about how do you build \
 these technologies that are\
easy to learn, effective \
 to use and providing\
enjoyable user experience. \
 Now, as the final part of\
this segment, I would like \
 to point you to a thoughtful\
but short blog post, \
 which is part of your\
mandatory reading materials for \
 this week, and which outline\
how these general design \
 principles remain constant\
within the new Gen AI \
 world too, but that also\
the specifics of how we \
 think about doing design\
can change quite markedly. I \
 suggest that you read this\
before moving to the next \
Timestamp 20 minutes section, and I'll look\
forward to seeing you there. \
\
\
Timestamp 0 Alright, in this and the\
next segment we'll start \
 talking about affordances\
which is an interesting \
 theoretical and somewhat\
tricky concept that is \
 at the heart of many design\
guidelines and tricks \
 that we'll be talking\
about in the next weeks. \
 A simple test of how\
successful the segment \
 was for you will be\
whether this little image \
 will start making sense\
to you when we're done. \
 So remember how when we\
talked about the objects \
 from the Uncomfortable\
website, most, if not \
 all of you could probably\
see straight away what \
 these objects could or\
could not be used for. \
 Affordances are the key\
theoretical grounding for such \
 process of understanding\
what is potential purpose of \
 an object, and are the\
key idea for these natural \
 interactions, especially if\
we're talking about physical \
 objects. There is some\
relatively deep and somewhat \
 confusing philosophy behind this\
notion, but for our purposes \
 let's focus on the surface\
level characteristics. \
 So let's look at\
the definition. \
 What are affordances? \
 The term affordance refers\
to the perceived and \
 actual properties of the\
thing, primarily those \
 fundamental properties that\
determine just how the thing \
 could be possibly used.\
So what does this mean? \
 A first part of the\
definition, fundamental \
 properties, is essentially the \
 functionality that is\
enabled by the object. \
 So these special wellies\
afford walking in \
 water, although perhaps\
not keeping your \
 drive, and a special\
fork affords holding, \
 although perhaps not\
particularly easy eating. \
 The second part of the\
definition talks about the \
 perceived and actual\
properties. What this means is \
 that the affordance refers\
to not just the objects, but \
 to a relationship between\
the object and the user. \
 So what does this relation\
mean? In the context of \
 design, affordances were thought\
of as directly, naturally \
 perceptible clues about\
what the objects are for. \
 So when affordances\
are taken advantage of, \
 the user knows what to\
do just by looking. No \
 picture, label or\
instruction is required. \
 Complex things may\
require explanations, \
 but simple things\
should not. When simple \
 things, such as doors,\
as we will see soon, \
 need pictures, labels\
or instructions, \
 the design has failed. \
 So when you think\
about a button, when \
 we see a button we\
kind of assume now \
 that it's something\
that can be pushed. \
 If we see a switch, a\
lever, we know that it can \
 be moved up and down or\
whatever the axis is. And \
 if we see something that\
looks like a knob, we \
 now kind of assume that\
we'd be able to rotate it. \
 So, what happens\
if affordances are \
 confusing, when we\
think about the object \
 having some property\
but it does not? \
 So in this case, if you\
see a door and it has \
 a handle like this,\
well, you're probably \
 going to hold the handle\
and then pull, because \
 that's what the handles\
are usually for. So \
 that makes all the sense.\
But now think about \
 what happens from the\
other side of this door. \
 It's nice and symmetric,\
but it means that when \
 you come to the door\
from the other side, you \
 will have a handle but\
if you try and pull it's \
 probably not going to\
do anything. So the \
 assumption is that on the\
other side there will have \
 to be a little thing\
that probably says push. \
 So what this suggests\
is that what is \
 perceived as an affordance\
might be misleading. \
 There might be situations\
where seeing an affordance, \
 so seeing a handle and\
being able to pull at a DAW \
 is good. It means it's\
possible and it's perceptible. \
 So it's a perceptible\
affordance and it's one that \
 we can do at other times\
there's no handle you \
 don't want to pull that's\
also good you you know that \
 that is not an interaction\
that you can have with \
 that object the two problematic\
states are if there is \
 perceptual information so\
for example the the handle \
 that allows you to pull\
but the door doesn't allow \
 you to pull or if it's\
hidden so you have a door \
 that you don't know how to\
open because you're supposed \
 to push and you haven't\
realized that's the case. \
 So the idea is that we\
have desired actions. \
 That's what we want to\
enable. That's the interaction \
 that we're trying to\
design for. And these \
 design actions cannot be\
carried out if the object \
 does not afford it,\
meaning I want to push, but \
 the door doesn't open that\
way. And afforded actions \
 might not be carried\
out if the user doesn't \
 perceive that these are\
possible. So again, a door \
 might be very easy to be,\
like, lifted up, but if \
 I don't know that a\
lifting up is a possible \
 action with that door, I\
will not be able to do it. \
 So in this example, \
 from this side, the handle\
seems to be a perceptible \
 affordance. I mean, there's\
additional information on \
 the side that guides us to\
it as well, but we can pull. \
 On the other side, it\
might be more problematic. \
 So just to finish up with\
this boring door interlude, \
 if designers were in\
control of the world, \
 this is how all doors\
would look like. \
Timestamp 5 minutes If you're supposed to push\
at a door, it does not \
 have a handle, it just\
has a little strip that \
 indicates this is where\
you push. This side of the \
 door is where you push.\
If you're pulling, you \
 have a handle, you hold\
it, you pull. And if you're \
 supposed to turn, then\
you probably have a knob. \
 as you go outside,\
after you finish \
 watching this lecture,\
wherever you are, go \
 and have a look at\
a couple of doors. \
 It's very likely that many\
of them will not follow \
 this pattern, and that you\
might have had, probably \
 had that experience of\
trying to walk through a door \
 and pulling at it or pushing\
at it, because that's \
 what it seems to afford,\
and then banging your face. \
 In effect, whenever the\
functionalities are not \
 naturally obvious, you might\
need to add more design \
 elements that can supplement\
and provide cues to the user \
 as to how they can or\
should interact with your \
 system. Now we've been\
mostly talking about physical \
 objects so far and that's\
just because they're quite \
 simple and understandable\
and these affordances are \
 something that is quite clear\
and close to the functionalities \
 you might want to do.\
So you could see the \
 wellies and the affordances\
that they have or you could \
 see the fork. The same ideas\
apply with digital objects \
 too, and especially ones\
that are powered by AI. \
 So the idea of desired\
actions and afforded \
 actions plays out\
with digital systems \
 too. So this little\
video shows what seems \
 to be a relatively\
simple interaction, \
 which is actually not that\
simple, but it's one that \
 we've already been well\
trained to do. So there's a \
 text box, we can probably\
write there, things appear \
 underneath that get highlighted\
as we mouse over, so \
 that's probably clickable,\
and when we need to send \
 something to the AI, we're\
getting the answers back. \
 So the desired actions here\
are to search, potentially \
 to get some suggestions\
and save some typing, as \
 well as be able to decide\
when the query is complete \
 and I want to hand it over\
to them to get answers. \
 The afforded actions\
are also very close. \
 We can type, we can\
select, we can send. \
Timestamp 7 minutes Now this is a\
different example. \
 One that is, again, using\
the power of AI, but it's \
 much less clear, and I've\
taken this from Adobe \
 websites, where it seems\
that you're capable of \
 manipulating images in these\
really complicated ways, \
 but at least for myself,\
when I haven't been working \
 with the system, what\
the affordances are, what \
 the desired actions even\
would be that I'd like \
 to carry out, and what the\
afforded actions are just \
 isn't as clear compared\
to the previous example. \
 So what is the takeaway\
here? The whole idea of \
 affordances is just a way of\
helping us think through how \
 when we're designing user\
interfaces and experiences, \
 we kind of automatically\
use queues that suggest \
 actions that are possible\
by an interface element. \
 If we have a stack of\
cards, that might allow \
 us to rearrange and\
shuffle. If we have an \
 underlying text on a\
website, it suggests \
 that it's a hyperlink\
and it can be clicked. \
 If we see something\
that looks like \
 a welly, we kind\
of automatically \
 assume that it will\
keep our feet dry. \
 But we're still figuring\
these out for AI, and \
 that's what the rest of\
the course is also about. \
 So to end this section, \
 I'll be pointing you again\
to a fairly lovely blog \
 post by the same person who\
has started about affordances \
 in the 80s, mostly for\
physical design at that \
 point, and is now describing\
how the concepts can have \
 purchased and be used within\
digital systems as well. \
 So please pause the video,\
go and have a read before \
 you start the next\
segment, as I'll assume you \
 will have at least kind\
of skimmed or read and \
 ideally understood the main\
ideas of the text there. \
 Okay, welcome back. I'm\
assuming you've read the \
 text so you know what\
signifiers and affordances are, \
 but just to double-check\
and define them together. \
 Affordances, as\
we've talked about, \
 define what actions\
could be possible. \
 And signifiers then specify\
how people discover these \
 possibilities. So signifiers\
are signs, perceptible \
 signals of what can be done.\
So the pieces of affordances \
 that can be perceived by\
people are signifiers, and \
 if these signifiers are\
created by the designer, it's \
 called something that's\
called of a social signifier. \
 So what does this mean? And\
again, sorry, we're going \
 to stay with doors just because\
doors are lovely, people \
 like them or not, but more\
importantly, they're quite \
 simple and good examples\
to show these constraints. \
 So when we look at this,\
we kind of know what \
 we've talked about the handle\
as being an affordance, \
 right? So it's something\
you can hold and often \
 you might be able to\
pull. Now the signifier \
 is suggesting and explaining\
what to do, because \
 affordances, in this case,\
seem to be confusing. \
 Let's have a look\
at another example. \
 In this case, this is\
a little more exciting, \
 right? So we have a\
signifier with some \
Timestamp 10 minutes icons showing what\
is locked and what is \
 unlocked, because that\
is not entirely obvious. \
 And we also have some\
affordances, so there's a button \
 for opening that seems to\
be just about the same size \
 as a thumb would be, so\
that's an affordance. it's \
 something that you probably\
can click. And then you \
 have a sliding lock that will\
be used to really lock the \
 coffee mug, and that's what\
the signifier suggests. \
 Let's have a look at a\
digital version of this. In \
 digital versions, the\
affordances might be more \
 hidden, right? Because\
they're digital. So in this \
 case, the affordance is\
the fact that we can tap \
 onto something. It's the\
button itself, the tap \
 target that sets up a set\
space, an attach system, \
 And it's not really the\
visual representation of \
 the button, you could\
have an affordance, the \
 ability to tap, even though\
there is no button there \
 that would signify that\
that affordance is there. \
 Then we have the signifier,\
which is a visual \
Timestamp 11 minutes representation of the\
button, a light bulb, icon to \
 tell you what's happening,\
whether you've tapped \
 it, a label to tell you\
which button or which \
 room the button relies on,\
and some sort of additional \
 information about the\
bulb. So all of those \
 are signifiers about the\
underlying affordances. \
 So to finish up these\
examples of the affordances \
 and their relationships\
to signifiers, \
 let's go back to the\
chatGBT example that we've \
 had before as part of\
the video. I won't label \
 everything, but just\
to give you some ideas, \
 the fact that we can type\
is a particular affordance. \
 We might have a little\
signifier that suggests that \
 that button kind of sends,\
that's the little arrow. \
 we have another signifier\
that kind of highlights \
 as you mouse over that\
you're able to pick and that \
 this is something that\
will be reactive and so on. \
 So the whole idea is that\
this notion of affordances \
 and signifiers allows you\
to think about what are the \
Timestamp 12 minutes capabilities and interactions\
that your technologies \
 afford and then also how\
do you make these visible \
 and available and understandable\
to your participants. \
 So again, \
 affordances define what\
actions are possible, \
 signify or specify how\
people discover this. I think \
 that what I really like\
about this particular picture \
 is that when you do look\
at a tree trunk, you kind \
 of can see, it's a physical\
thing, you can see what \
 that object will be used\
for. Because you've seen so \
 many other objects that\
looked like it, and there's \
 something about chairness,\
because it's the right \
 height, it's the right\
width, hopefully it's not too \
 sticky or too dirty, but you\
can imagine sitting on it. \
 Within the digital experiences, \
 that's a little bit harder. \
 So the idea is that you\
have a bunch of pixels, and \
 some of these pixels have\
some properties, such as \
 that they're pushable,\
that you can do something, \
 whereas others do not. So\
there is this idea that \
 signifiers become really\
important within the digital \
 environments, because the\
affordances often end up being \
 exceedingly hidden. So the\
idea of kind of being able to \
 use and build on what we'll\
call mental models, which \
 is something we'll be talking\
about next week, to help \
 people understand which ports\
of the screen are pushable \
 and which parts of the\
screen you can select or \
 scroll through and so on,\
all of these will be ways in \
 which you apply that design\
thinking and that design \
 sense and use signifiers in\
ways that people understand. \
 A lot of this thinking\
comes from a very famous and \
 now very senior professor\
at UCSD called Dan Norman, \
 and I'd really recommend\
you reading these books. \
 Obviously, they're not a\
mandatory part of reading, but if \
 you're interested in design,\
or if you're interested \
 in potentially taking this\
as either a career or as \
 a research career, these\
two books are really, really \
 exciting, and you will see\
all the professors and all, \
 and most of the UX\
practitioners also know these \
 two books quite well, because\
even though that they're \
 reasonably old by now, The\
ideas, the ways in which \
 Don Norman's capable of\
talking about the principles of \
 how human cognition works\
and why you work with design \
 the way you do, those just\
remain true, even now. \
 And I'll just want to\
leave you with this one \
 little example. So what\
are the affordances \
 here on both the original\
and fixed version? \
 Have a think. What are\
the signifiers? How does \
 this match with the\
three design goals that \
 we've talked about in the\
first session? Just pause \
 the video and think\
about it. Are you able to \
 apply these concepts to\
this particular image? \
 Is it clear to you?\
If not, read more, \
 go back to the videos,\
think about it. This is what \
 most of the course will be\
about. There's some theory \
 but now you have another\
example of a design problem. \
 How do you apply it here?\
What does it say? What \
 can you tell about it? How\
would you redesign this? \
\
\
Timestamp 0 Hi and welcome back. In\
this last segment for this \
 week, I'll try to briefly\
introduce the processes \
 of user-centred design,\
which you will then hear \
 much more about in weeks\
four to six. I'll start \
 with potentially slightly\
boring definitions, \
 introduce a few more fun\
ways which people have \
 previously tried to use to\
explain the process, often \
 in some form of what is\
called a double diamond, \
 and then jump into an\
example of how a user-centred \
 design looks like based\
on the research piece \
 that we've done in our\
group over the last summer. \
 All right, let's get going. \
 As a quick reminder, what\
we've been talking about \
 in the previous part of the\
lecture was all associated \
 with what does it mean\
to think like a designer. \
 We've talked about the\
notion of affordances \
 that are often\
visible for physical \
 objects such as the\
uncomfortables here, \
 as well as signifiers which\
take a higher importance \
 in digital designs.\
And also about how all \
 design is actually\
situated in how, when, why, \
 and for what people want\
to use what you created. \
 This is what makes the objects\
on the right so interesting. \
 They clearly nod at a\
particular use, but there \
 is something about how these\
are designed that would \
 either break the activity\
that's being supported, or just \
 not work in the context\
where you want to use them. \
 We also talked about\
oversimplifying, but \
 fairly useful way of\
defining interaction design \
 goals as easy to learn,\
effective to use, \
 and providing an\
enjoyable user experience. \
 At least one of these\
three goals is then what \
 fails both for these\
bad designs here as well \
 as for every single one\
of the uncomfortable \
 ones. And I hopefully, I\
think you should now be \
 able to identify and see\
what these fails are. \
 All right, but so far\
you might say, Oi, Peter, \
 all you've been telling\
us is about that we \
 should know when stuff is\
right, We should really \
 know when it's wrong,\
but it's not really clear \
 how to get from the\
latter to the former or \
 ideally decide the right\
thing from the get-go. \
 So what should we do? \
 This process of getting\
to the right results that \
 fits with what users need\
is often encompassed by \
 what the literature calls\
a user-centered design. \
 The latest ICO from 2019\
defines user-centered design \
 as a approach to systems\
design and development that \
 aims to make interactive\
systems more usable by focusing \
 on the use of the system\
and applying human factors \
 or ergonomics and usability\
knowledge and techniques. \
 Well, that's a mouthful. The\
Interaction Design Foundation \
 explains the same thing,\
but in slightly different \
 words, focusing less on what\
the aims are, more usable, \
 applying user factors and\
so on, and emphasizing more \
 the process through which\
these goals are achieved. \
 So the user-centred design\
is an interactive design \
 process in which the\
designer focuses on the users \
 and their needs in each\
phase of the design process. \
 So what this means is\
that in the UCD the \
 design teams involve users\
throughout the design \
 process through a\
range of or variety of \
 research and design\
techniques to create highly \
Timestamp 3 minutes usable and accessible\
products for people. \
 But what it really\
doesn't tell us is \
 what are these variety\
of research and \
 design techniques\
that we could use. \
 So let's jump into the\
overall models of the process. \
 What stages do these\
definitions expect you as a \
 designer to go through? And\
I'll show a couple of examples \
 of how the user-centred design\
process was conceptualized \
 so you get an idea of\
what the common patterns \
 are that seem to emerge\
across many of these ideas. \
 So in this process,\
which is the ICO 2019 \
 human-centered design\
one, you start with \
 planning the human\
-centered design process, \
 because obviously\
that's important, \
 but then you move to\
understanding and specifying the \
 context of use. There are these\
magical user requirements, \
 which is something we'll\
talk about as often being \
 pretty hard to do most of\
the time, And then these \
 arrows kind of walk you\
through, right? So you produce \
 design solutions that meet\
those user requirements. \
 You evaluate those designs\
across or against those \
 requirements. And then these\
kind of dashed arrows essentially \
 talk about the possible\
failure points. You might \
 have gotten the context\
and the requirement rights, \
 right? You just messed\
up the design solution, \
 so you go back to producing\
a different design \
 solution. That doesn't\
fail your evaluation. \
 Or you might need to go all\
the way back and you say, \
 well, we've clearly actually\
misunderstood what it is \
 that we're trying to do.\
We designed for the wrong \
 context. This doesn't work.\
We need to kind of go back. \
 So overall, the key\
emphasis here is \
 that this is not\
a waterfall model. \
 It's not something where\
you specify it up front, \
 you have all the\
information, you decide \
 what's going to happen,\
and then you just deploy. \
 It's much more similar to\
what might be happening in \
 Agile. So a lot of iteration,\
a lot of assumption \
Timestamp 5 minutes that you never have enough\
information at the start, \
 and that it's through the\
design and through the process \
 of building things that\
you gain the information \
 you need so that you can\
start making good choices. \
 From a 10,000 feet level,\
the process of design can \
 also be seen as moving\
from a place where we don't \
 really know and there could\
be a solution, and in fact \
 we probably can't even\
articulate the problem that's \
 supposed to be solved\
properly, to a place where \
 we only know what, not only\
know what the problem is, \
 but we've already designed\
and tested the solutions \
 and now, you know, they're\
out there, whether it's \
 in your research thesis or\
out there in in commercial \
 sphere. The double diamond\
model should not be seen \
 as a linear process and\
we'll keep on seeing this \
 kind of notion of diverging\
and converging and diverging \
 and converging at least\
twice repeatedly. So it's \
 not a linear process where\
you go from A to B and \
 you kind of never stop but\
it's it's really supposed \
 to be a map of the types\
of design thinking or the \
Timestamp 6 minutes areas of interest that you\
will likely visit along the \
 way although you'll be\
cycling throughout and kind \
 of coming back and forth,\
just like within the ISO. \
 So a couple of the main\
points that I want to \
 highlight here are the\
big difference between \
 doing the right things\
and doing things right. \
 What this is trying\
to say is that very \
 often in design,\
you do not know what \
 is it that you should\
even be building. \
 So often the first part of\
this diverge and converge \
 system is really just\
about you getting the \
 right understanding of\
what the problem is, what \
 is it that the users need,\
what is their activity, \
 what is the context,\
what do we need to know \
 about it, and what should\
the system even be doing. \
 So this notion of a design\
brief is a really critical \
 document that actually ends\
up being a key contribution \
 for much of the work. So\
this idea that you might \
 spend more than half of\
your process, 60-70% of \
 your time, just even figuring\
out what is it that the \
 design should do that is\
entirely normal and natural \
 so the other piece that\
we want to focus on is if \
 you move from doing the\
right things and you move \
 to doing things right\
again you will be expecting \
 that even though you've\
had the design brief and \
 you know what you're\
trying to do you will again \
 start ideating you'll\
start having many ideas \
 and many possibilities\
that you need to explore \
 before you start converging\
down to the right solution. \
 So these diverge and\
converge models are \
 something that very often\
is seen as defining design. \
 And again, it's this idea\
of thinking through doing \
 and never knowing all the\
information you need to \
 have. So there's this\
phrase where if we knew \
 exactly what we want to do,\
you wouldn't need designers. \
 The design is about\
understanding and mapping \
 some sort of difficult,\
hard, tangly, wrangly problem \
 that doesn't necessarily\
have a clean solution. \
 Alright, and the last piece\
that I want to highlight \
 is that there's really\
an expected iteration, \
 certainly within the\
diamonds, so as you're \
 diverging and converging\
there's a lot of iteration \
 between what you believe\
the ideas might be, how \
 do you define your\
research areas and methods, \
 you know, what do you do\
as primary research? You \
 might find insights that\
then lead to you having to \
 redefine an area and start\
doing more primary research \
 and so on. As well as then\
potentially across the \
 diamonds. So after you've\
defined your brief and \
 you have some ideas and\
you're trying to start to \
 deliver, so all the way\
potentially even back here where \
 it says build a trade and\
repeat, you might realize \
 that actually by the way\
in which people started \
 using your system that you've\
misunderstood something \
 really important and it\
might kick you not entirely \
 back you don't forget\
all the work that you've \
 done but there will be\
phases of the first diamond \
 where you realize that you\
don't know what the right \
 things are yet and you'll\
have to go back so it is \
 confusing it's iterative and\
it's it's certainly something \
 that's quite fun so to\
illustrate the differences \
 between what does it really\
mean to find a good design \
 brief and how might we do\
it with users. So there's \
 this idea of we're talking\
about user-centered design. \
 What are the users' needs?\
What are their hopes? What \
 are their dreams? How will\
they use systems? But those \
 systems don't exist yet. So\
there's this famous quote \
 that probably has never\
been said. But if you think \
 about Henry Ford as the\
person who designed the first \
 car, he's told to be saying\
that if I had asked people \
 what they wanted, they would\
have said faster horses, \
 right? And this is all\
always or often presented as \
 the idea of you have this\
tension of really trying to \
 understand what people's\
needs are, but people usually \
 don't know what the solutions\
to those needs would be. \
 So the follow-up to this\
is, but what Ford did notice \
 was that when he asked what\
people wanted, the main \
 thing they said was that\
they wanted a faster horse \
 who doesn't get tired,\
rather than more comfortable. \
 I think this is what\
you'll be hearing much \
 more about in weeks\
four, probably, and five, \
 but this idea of being\
able to go to users and \
 understand what they need,\
even though they might not \
 know what the solutions to\
their needs are, is really \
 critical and interesting\
tension within the Sun. \
 So just very quickly now,\
another way of simplifying \
 the design process, especially\
around involving users' \
 needs, comes from the Stanford\
Design School and IDEO. \
 It's positioned again\
as a series of stages, \
 but you'll see all\
these little arrows \
 that indicate that in\
real projects you'll \
 be flying back and\
forth between these. \
 And we've started\
to talk about little \
 bit of some of these\
tools, about what is \
Timestamp 11 minutes it to empathize,\
what is it to define, \
 but the rest of the semester\
will kind of be going \
 through the individual\
stages, especially in weeks \
 four to six, and you'll\
understand more about this. \
 So just to close off this\
section, I'm leaving a \
 couple of slides here from\
IDEO, which is one of the \
 most famous design studios\
on the planet, and I'll \
 let you read these if\
you're interested, but this \
 first slide just outlines\
the types of questions that \
 designers will ask in\
different parts of the process \
 and notice again how\
does diverge and converge \
 models are happening twice\
just like in the diamond \
 model right so all of these\
are restatings of this \
 idea that seems to be\
really common where we need \
 to understand what is it\
that we're even trying to \
 design and then try to design\
it properly but in both \
 cases we have to diverge\
to understand what the \
 range of ideas are And then\
only then we might start \
 converging on what good\
solutions would look like. \
 And the second slide is\
one that shows the seven \
 key lessons or the approaches\
that IDEO works. And \
 I really like this because\
it's clearly aligned \
 with the way that we've\
ended up doing design in \
 my lab. But it also helps\
us articulate how design \
 differs from other science\
areas. For example, \
 if we're trying to introduce\
these ideas of design \
 thinking or innovation\
into clinical teams at \
 Harvard, Cambridge, Oxford,\
various universities. \
 So if you have a\
few moments, just \
 pause the video,\
have a read through. \
 You'll see that each of\
these is a way of thinking. \
 It's a way of approaching\
the world that is sometimes \
 similar to what an engineer\
might do automatically, but \
 often it is not. and it's\
it's a really interesting \
 way of knowing and seeing\
and engaging with problems. \
 So much of what we've\
talked about now has been \
 mostly focused on the\
traditional design processes \
 as these still encompass\
a large proportion of \
 what you might do. But\
obviously we've been talking \
 about these two different\
types of AI and how this \
 will differ and impact\
these design processes. \
 So, to hint at the differences,\
I just wanted to leave \
 you with this beautiful\
image that comes from a \
 relatively famous paper now,\
which is about two years \
 old, that kind of indicates\
the difference between \
 traditional design and\
designing with these stochastic \
 amorphous systems that kind\
of seem to wave and shape \
 underneath your hands.\
Now, the top is a really \
 famous image it's it's called\
the design squiggle it's \
 very often used to show how\
much of a mess design is \
 and how you go from one side\
to the other and how it's \
 really kind of messy and\
all over the place at the \
 start but then over time\
the amplitudes kind of start \
 leveling out and then you\
have a clarity and focus \
 and that's when you've\
actually started you know \
 prototyping and designing\
the real system you're past \
 prototypes but you're now\
you know what you're trying \
 to do you know what the\
design is and now it's about \
 engineering and execution\
and marketing and all of \
 these really important areas\
but from a design perspective \
 you know now and underneath\
you can see how that \
 same squiggle has been kind\
of adapted into a never \
 -ending area which hopefully\
might not be exactly the \
 case now it is two years\
old but it indicates how \
 the generative AI AI\
approaches might change what it \
 even means to design and\
how we might deal with this. \
 So what I want to leave\
you with today is this \
 beautiful blog by someone\
who's a general manager \
 at Xbox and who writes\
about this idea of treating \
 AI as design material,\
which is something that \
 comes from art and design\
as making things pretty, \
 where the idea is that\
each medium, so whether \
 it's clay or wood or stone,\
if you're a sculptor, \
 each of that medium has a\
life of its own and it kind \
 of resists what you want\
to do. It might splinter. \
 And the role of the designer\
is to really understand \
 the quirks and the ways in\
which the medium kind of \
 works in ways that you don't\
expect. So what this blog \
 talks about is like clay\
resists, wood splinters and \
 ai misinterprets it's it's\
something we need to learn \
 to deal with and it's that\
material friction where good \
 design happens i'd really\
encourage you to read this \
 um it's not that this is\
going to be anywhere on the \
 on the final test um it doesn't\
have a particular concept \
 in it that um would be a\
theory that you need to \
 understand that you know, AI\
does X, Y, and Z, but I think \
 it's a really interesting\
way of getting your head \
 around what does it mean to\
design and what does it mean \
 to design with things like\
AI that we don't understand \
 yet fully, we don't know\
how it works as designers, \
 because it keeps on\
changing underneath our \
 hands and we haven't\
quite gotten the rules \
 of thumb or best\
practices down just year. \
 So please give this a read. \
 Alright, so to wrap up\
with an example, I wanted \
 to do a quick run\
-through of this work that \
 we've done with lovely\
people across Cambridge \
 and Stanford and University\
of Washington and \
 University of Michigan\
last year over the summer. \
 So this is a research paper\
that I've been pulling \
 pieces out of. It's also\
something that hopefully will \
 be able to show you some of\
the steps of the user-centred \
 design process that we were\
talking about on something \
 that's ended up being\
surprisingly interesting and \
 maybe will become reasonably\
influential over time. \
 So it's something that's,\
as I said, emerged from a \
 sprint over the summer where\
we were trying to understand \
 how could we collect\
information from young people \
 that would allow them to\
articulate their difficult \
 experiences with social media\
and the reason was that we \
 wanted to build a mental\
health intervention or \
 cognitive reappraisal intervention\
that would support young \
 people as they engage with\
social media and potentially \
 struggle. So we're working\
with James Gross who's \
 essentially the person who's\
built up the whole field \
 of emotional regulation and\
he's based at Stanford as \
 well, Sammy Orban, who's\
focused very much on social \
 media and policy and social\
media harms at Cambridge. \
 But within those 12 weeks\
of inception, we've moved \
 from not having anything\
and just having that idea to \
 something that we built that\
already was shown to work \
 in a randomised controlled\
trial and had interest from \
 a range of researchers at\
leading institutions, you \
 know, you can read some of\
the names, across domains, \
 including basic psychology\
and clinical and human \
 -computer interaction and\
implementation science and so \
 on, as well as seeing this\
work or the tool being brought \
 into a range of application\
areas, from maybe data \
 gathering to starting to\
think about interventions. \
 So how did this happen?\
What was the process that \
 underpinned this 12-week sprint\
from nothing to now we have \
 a tool that a lot of people\
are interested in using? \
 I'll break it down into\
the design, according \
 to the design thinking\
phases, just to give \
 you a sense. So the\
first one's talking about \
 understanding the user's\
needs and problems. \
 So what is it that we're\
even trying to solve? \
 So in our case, the\
users were actually these \
 research groups, right?\
So they needed to get this \
Timestamp 19 minutes information from hundreds\
of young people in ways \
 that young people would\
be willing to share and \
 would be able to articulate\
these experiences. \
 So the broader idea was\
that we actually realized \
 that we don't have tools, we\
don't have ways of collecting \
 these narratives, these\
ideas, these stories from \
 participants at scale\
without excessive participant \
 burden or research costs.\
And what this means is \
 that your traditional models\
are to interview people \
 over Zoom or phone and as\
you might have noticed if \
 anyone has ever asked you\
to do a research study, most \
 young people just don't\
want to participate, it's \
 not interesting and also\
it's just really hard to \
 arrange that hour in your\
day where you fit with what \
 the interviewer can do and\
what you can do and then \
 often you don't get people\
showing up and so on. So \
 we just had no way of\
collecting this data at scale. \
 So that was our understanding\
and And what we've \
 tried to really do was\
to think about, well, \
 why don't people\
engage and what is \
 it about the process\
that is hard? \
 So we started thinking about, \
 well, what would we need? \
 We would ideally need,\
not very much, we \
 don't need long stories\
from participants. \
 We need stories that are\
relatively focused and \
 succinct, but they need to\
answer all the pieces of \
 knowledge that we need. So\
this is an example of one of \
 the stories that we've\
gotten as the output. But if \
 you had an open text form\
that just asked you, you \
 know, tell me about your\
social media experiences, \
 getting young people to\
consistently write stories \
 like this in this format\
seemed pretty hard, and \
 the experience suggested\
that that wouldn't happen. \
 So our design challenge,\
if you remember thinking \
 about design briefs,\
Our design challenge was \
 that we're really trying\
to develop what we would \
 call a remote narrative\
elicitation method. So \
 what that means is a way\
to help people articulate \
Timestamp 21 minutes stories. That has the\
following characteristics. \
 It provides enough\
open-endedness because \
 we didn't want to\
turn it into a survey. \
 We really needed\
to collect stories. \
 It provides enough consistency\
across participants. \
 So we wanted to ensure and\
enable the participants to, \
 you know, not tell us too\
much or not tell us too \
 little, really. And also just\
focus on getting the right \
 answers that we needed and\
not too much, again, just \
 to balance the burden that\
we're placing on people. \
 And something that reduces\
the cognitive burden, which \
 ideally will then mean\
that it also increases the \
 willingness to engage and\
also the ability to engage. \
 so i'm conscious that\
we have over an hour of \
 recorded material by now\
um anyway so i'm really \
 running through this\
very quickly we might \
 talk a little bit more\
about this um during the \
 large group tutorial or\
lesson that we have um \
 together but the idea was\
that if we have defined \
Timestamp 22 minutes this this way how did\
we start thinking about \
 well what the solutions\
would look like right \
 so now we're moving\
into the second diamond. \
 I've not shown you much\
of the process, but \
 we've ended up in a place\
where we now know what \
 our target is. We're\
trying to build this remote \
 elicitation method\
and it has particular \
 characteristics. So what\
could the solutions be? \
 Our idea was that we\
started thinking about, if I \
 asked someone to craft\
these four to six sentences, \
 long descriptions, what\
is it that they need to \
 be able to do? So what\
is it that we're actually \
 asking them to do cognitively?\
We're asking them to \
 know what to focus on in\
that challenging situation, \
 which might or might not\
be easy. If you spend \
 your life thinking about\
all the things that social \
 media kind of worry you\
or make you annoyed about, \
 well, it'll be an easy\
story for you to tell. But \
 if you don't, if it's\
just part of your life, it \
 might be harder to know how\
to answer that question. \
Timestamp 23 minutes We then wanted them to\
know how much abstraction \
 they need to do. Is\
it a word? Is it a \
 sentence? Is it a two\
-page essay? What is \
 the level of abstraction\
that we need for each \
 of the aspects that\
we need to hear about? \
 Third point, I think,\
is the crucial one. \
 Yet people needed to both\
be able and willing to \
 articulate a story that\
was coherent and that is \
 kind of fitting into the\
format that we needed. \
 And finally, we needed to\
ensure that even if you \
 write a story, it doesn't\
mean that it actually captures \
 what your experience was\
or what you wanted to do. \
 So from ours, as we were\
ideating, we were thinking, \
 well, okay, this is actually\
what we're trying to get \
 people to do. So this became\
part of a design brave, \
 but it happened as a way\
of thinking about what the \
 solution would be. What is\
it that we could support for \
 each of these key steps\
along this trajectory here? \
Timestamp 24 minutes The underlying idea, and I\
won't go into this, there's \
 about 30 to 40 years of\
research in psychology on \
 vignettes. So these vignettes\
are these relatively short \
 stories, similar to the\
one that you've seen. But \
 usually the way how they've\
been used was to have \
 researchers interview a bunch\
of people and then make this \
 story as if it was coming\
from a participant and then \
 sharing out the same story\
with dozens of other research \
 participants as a way of\
engaging them with the \
 same content. So the idea was\
that researchers were using \
 vignettes as storytelling\
device, right? It was a \
 way of saying, well, imagine\
you're in this situation \
 that another student has\
done this and this and this \
 and this as their part of\
preparation for an exam, how \
 would you approach their\
situation if you were in their \
 shoes, right? That's how\
vignettes have been used. \
 And what we said was,\
well, it's interesting. \
 Now that we have generative\
AI, can we enable \
 participants to make\
these vignettes so that we \
 use that same idea, but\
swap it around, where \
 the participants are\
using the same technique \
 and we enable storytelling from \
 participants to researchers? \
 So, again, jumping ahead\
really fast, but based \
 on these ideas, and\
based on the way in which \
 those ideas then shaped\
the brief that we \
 were trying to build, we\
started prototyping and \
 thinking about, well,\
how could we fix this? \
 Okay, so I'll jump ahead\
and not really talk too \
 much about the prototyping,\
but really describe \
 the final product. What\
did we end up doing? \
 The underlying system\
ended up being incredibly \
 simple. It was just three\
sequential calls to an LLM \
 that had been scoped in\
interesting ways, and controlled \
 with a traditional state\
-based finite machine. \
 So very, very simple. \
 What did it end up looking\
like for the participants? \
 So there are kind\
of three parts, \
 some of which are seen\
by participants, some of \
 which aren't. So as a\
participant, you would get this \
 conversation, so you\
would be asked a couple of \
 questions, and you'll see\
that those have been more \
 or less pre-specified,\
but the LLMs allow you to \
 embed those questions\
in interesting ways. You \
 would answer potentially\
with just a couple of words, \
 you didn't have to even\
use the full sentences. \
 Then the second stage\
would extract your answers. \
 So that's if you think\
about the abstraction. \
 It's about being able to\
extract the right level of \
 information that people\
have said and do that within \
 their actual words. And\
then we used another piece \
 which combined the extraction\
into a story. And the \
 idea here is that if we\
have the right questions, \
 that's what creates the template\
for a vignette, template \
 for a story. and even if you\
then have these relatively \
 small skeleton hunters\
you can use these as the \
 core pieces of the story and\
then the other one can just \
 finish the connective\
tissue. So it's the same idea \
 of if I'm asking you to create\
a fairy tale for example \
 I will say well who's the\
hero or heroine where do \
 they come from what are they\
trying to do are they trying \
 to get married or Are they\
trying to fight an enemy? \
 Who the enemy is? What\
is the most problematic \
 thing that happens to\
them? How do they resolve \
 it? And how does the story\
end? If I have answers \
 to these kind of\
individual small questions, \
 I can create something that \
 will look like a fairytale. \
 So this is exactly the\
same idea we used here. \
 So if we step through\
this, there's some notion \
 of we're delegating\
cognition and scaffolding \
 and thinking about how\
to design things in \
 ways that make it\
simpler for participants. \
 But again, I won't go into\
this in detail in this \
 video. But the first idea\
was, well, people might not \
 know what to focus on. So\
we're going to provide this \
 template, right? In the\
same way as if you use the \
 fairytale story again,\
it's easier to answer these \
 questions. Who's your hero?\
where did he come from? What \
 is their goal? What's the\
worst thing that will happen \
 to them? What's the biggest\
risk that they have to \
 take? How do they resolve it?\
And so on. These questions \
 are something you can\
answer kind of one by one. \
 And you've built\
the story, but you \
 don't have to think\
about it. So that \
 same idea is what\
we've done here. \
 The specific questions\
in the case of \
 social media were,\
well, what happened \
 specifically? What was\
set, posted or done? \
 That seems easy for people\
to answer. Once they've \
 answered it, well, what's\
the context? What else do \
 we need to know about that\
situation? How did that \
 make you feel? How did you\
react? What was the worst \
 part of the situation? And\
our idea was, well, if we \
Timestamp 29 minutes have answers to all these,\
we kind of have all we \
 need and we just need to\
craft it into this little \
 narrative, into this story\
that people can react to. \
 So we had a single component\
that just went and asked \
 those questions with a little\
bit of scaffolding around \
 them. And it seemed easy\
for participants to answer. \
 So what was the next step?\
We now have a dialogue \
 that has answers. We're\
talking young people. Those \
 answers probably won't be\
full sentences. So we want to \
 extract the exact words,\
kind of the core of what \
 their answer was to each of\
those questions. And again, \
 that's relatively simple.\
We can trust the LLMs to \
 do that reasonably\
consistently, and we can also \
 control the level of detail,\
so this abstraction of how \
 much information we need\
to do, we need to collect. \
 The third piece was that\
now we have that data \
 extracted, we want to craft\
it into a story, right? So \
 it's the same idea of I have\
the four or five elements \
 of what makes a fairy\
tale, now I need to build a \
 fairy tale around it. I\
could build a big one, I \
 could build a little one,\
but in our case we were \
 really trying to take answers\
to those four questions, \
 put them one after another,\
and then ask the LLM \
 to craft and add\
anything they needed into \
 just making it sound like\
a story. But we knew that \
 it could be a story\
because of the way how \
 we've crafted those\
questions and that template. \
 What we also wanted to\
do, and this is a design \
 choice, we didn't want the\
participant to see just one \
 story that were created\
out of their data, because \
 that would mean that they're\
more likely to accept \
 it. So we wanted to show\
them three different stories \
 that were all created\
with a different emotional \
 tone. So the idea of these\
personas that you can kind \
 of see here was that you,\
as a participant, would \
 get the three stories, each\
of which contains exactly \
 your words, but the tone\
of them might be slightly \
 different. So it could\
be coming from a teacher, \
 or it could be coming from\
a friend or it could be \
 coming from someone who's\
slightly younger than you. \
 And then the final piece\
was we asked participants \
 to review these three stories\
and to select one that \
 they like and then adapt\
it. So the idea was, hey, \
 here are three things that\
are more or less probably \
 close to what you wanted\
to say, but they're not \
 going to be exact. Pick\
the one that's closest to \
 what you're trying to say\
and then adapt it so it's \
 actually really what you're\
trying to do something. \
 And again, that seemed\
relatively simple for \
 participants and also relatively\
simple to do with LLMS. \
 So the idea behind all\
this was that it was very \
 easy to adapt because all\
of what you need to change, \
 if you want to not ask\
about social media, but you \
 want to ask about their\
favorite fairy tale, you just \
 change the template and\
you change the personas. \
 Everything else in the system\
stays exactly the same. \
 So the idea now is that\
all you need is this \
 little config that allows\
you to specify what \
 are the questions and\
all of a sudden the tool \
 can not just be used\
for social media context \
 but it can be used for\
many other situations. \
 So we now built something,\
we were thinking \
 how clever we are,\
this is amazing, we \
 have a prototype, it\
seems to work for us. \
 But we needed to test\
it. So what did we do? \
 We ran a mixed methods\
experimental study. So \
 what we've essentially\
tried to do was we got \
 250 young people on a\
platform called Prolific \
 to engage with two types\
of story generations each. \
 And we'll talk a little\
bit more about this in week \
 seven, I believe, when we\
talk about evaluation. But \
 the general idea was that\
we really wanted to see and \
 contrast what happens when\
we ask a young person to \
 do the same thing with an\
open text survey, so just \
 the traditional model that\
you might get in your exam \
Timestamp 33 minutes or, sorry, in your\
evaluation of courses, please \
 provide more details about\
what you liked or disliked \
 about this course, so that\
kind of open text survey, \
 or the system that we've\
designed for people here. \
 And we did it in a reasonably\
clever way. This was run \
 with Stanford. So we did\
it in a way where we could \
 both do implicit comparisons.\
So kind of between subjects \
 where people have seen\
either only the bots or only \
 the forum, and we could\
compare it there. But we could \
 also compare within\
subjects. So both each of the \
 people have ended up\
experiencing both of those things \
 in the end, so we could ask\
them which one they preferred. \
 So we had both this kind\
of independent measures \
 of how useful or unuseful\
these things were, but then \
 also we had preferences\
metrics that were interesting. \
 So what did we find out? \
 It turned out that whatever\
we measured, the system \
 we've design was just so much\
better than the open text \
 form. I won't go through all\
the details, feel free to \
 stop the video if you're\
interested. But what was \
 really interesting for us was\
really this notion of people \
 were talking about how\
it was more helpful for \
 articulating their experience,\
that it might have been less \
 difficult to respond to, as\
well as some of the other \
 aspects that I'm\
pointing out here. \
 We also, since we've\
collected an actual dataset, \
 this is again done with\
Cambridge, where we have now \
 900 stories of young people\
across US and UK about the \
 biggest challenges that\
they face. The reason why \
 I'm including this slide is\
also because we then asked \
 young people to tell us\
about their value. And \
 remember, these were young\
people who were essentially \
 hired to go and do this\
three-minute text survey, so \
Timestamp 35 minutes they really shouldn't have\
found it helpful. But what's \
 interesting, if you pause\
the video, you can look \
 at how big percentages of\
people were reporting that \
 the experience was not just\
a thing they did for money, \
 but it seemed to have been\
interesting and helpful, \
 and there's some interesting\
thoughts behind why \
 that might be the case and\
there's a series of studies \
 that we can talk about um\
in in the actual lecture \
 that why we think this is\
the case so just just to \
 wrap up the the broader\
implications of this were \
 that we started with a problem\
that was our own little \
 problem we needed to\
understand what young people \
 think about social media\
but then we've ended up \
 building a system that\
addresses is a much bigger \
 question of these collecting\
rich qualitative narratives \
 at scale, this idea of\
how do you make a good \
 design that would reduce\
the burden for participants. \
 And we've made it into\
something that's quite simple \
 to adapt. And we now have\
a lot of interest in the \
 data collection and\
interventions. This is the slide \
 from last year. So the\
numbers would, sorry, the \
 little logos would be much\
more multiplied by now. But \
 even within those 12 weeks,\
we've had so much interest \
 from a lot of people,\
which often suggests in \
 design that you've actually\
had something that's \
 important where there's\
need and where people need a \
 solution and they don't have\
a good solution right now. \
 I wanted to pull out\
this blog one more time, \
 because I think the example\
that we've just gone \
 through is a good\
illustration of what it \
 means to work with AI as\
design materials. And if \
 you were to read the\
underlying paper, or I'm \
 happy to talk about it\
when we meet in person, \
 again, the idea is that\
we've really worked with AI \
 as a material. We've\
deliberately made choices about \
 the ways in which we're\
willing to engage with it. How \
 do we design around the\
quirks that it has, but also \
 how do we design around\
the really fascinating \
 properties that it allows\
us to do now. And there's a \
 reason why no one's done that\
kind of tool ever before, \
 which is, it just wasn't\
possible a year or two \
 ago. So I think it\
illustrates both this \
 particular, the ideas from\
this particular blog, but \
 also the excitement and\
opportunities that lie \
 around human AI\
collaboration space, which is \
 perhaps why you're here\
with us in this course. \
 So as the very, very last\
part, I just wanted to \
 highlight this article\
and TED Talk that you have \
 available on Keats and that\
I'd really encourage you to \
 read and watch. because\
I think it's coming from \
 someone who has decades of\
experience in designing. \
 And I think it really\
illustrates and shows how much \
 further you can go when\
thinking about design than \
 just building yet another\
app that does exactly the \
 same thing as all the other\
apps have done before. \
 But now it does it with a\
slightly different shade \
 of gray or blue or pink or\
whichever color you like. \
 I really like both the\
article and the TED Talk. it's \
 probably not going to take\
you that long, and I hope \
 that you'll find it really\
interesting. So with this, \
 and as the end of the\
first week, thank you so \
 much for being with us,\
hoping that this is something \
 that seems to be relevant\
and interesting to \
 what you want to do in\
future, or what you want to \
 learn, and let me know if\
you have any questions. \
 This will be a relatively\
small class, I believe \
 for the first year so\
I'm really excited to \
 meeting you all very soon\
all right see you soon bye }