{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0  All right, hi and welcome\
back to the second week. \
 So, in the previous lesson,\
we've started talking \
 about what is interaction\
design, why do we need \
 to think about who we're\
designing for, remember the \
 convenient fly-is-it-fly\
spray or oil situation, \
 as well as the big idea\
of design as assembly \
 of affordances, signifiers\
and so on. We also \
 focused on some of the\
basic models that try to \
 explain the use-centred\
designer approach that \
 grounds most of human AI\
interaction questions. \
 This week, we're going\
to talk about something \
 else. We're going to\
talk about cognitive \
 psychology and mental\
models in AI design. \
 Now, why do we need to do this? \
 One of the really exciting\
aspects, as well as \
 problems with human-computer\
interaction and human-AI \
 interaction in general, is\
that what our design material \
 is essentially changes\
over five to ten years. \
Timestamp 1 minute So 50 years ago we might\
have had very slow and \
 text-only machines like\
this one, then we might \
 have moved to graphical\
user interfaces that are \
 still based around fixed\
workspace settings where \
 you were doing work work,\
you were working with \
 documents or spreadsheets,\
whatever you want. \
 Then we moved to laptops,\
so all of a sudden it \
 started proliferating\
technology into people's \
 everyday settings, with\
laptops, smartphones, \
 Google Homes, Alexa-type\
devices, and most recently \
 VR and XR. So in other\
words, the design material \
 we're supposed to work\
with as designers, at least \
 in terms of what is there\
on the technology side, what \
 are the affordances that\
the technology allows us \
 to work with, just keep on\
annoyingly changing every \
 couple of years. Which\
makes it really hard to do \
 any proper science around\
these things, to have some \
 fixed rules like the laws\
of physics that we, you \
 know, are kind of envious\
about. Like, our whole \
 universe keeps on changing\
every second seven years. \
 In contrast, \
 human evolution is a little\
more civilized, in spite \
 of the cheerful illustrations\
like this. In other \
 words, humans have the\
common decency of remaining \
 relatively stable, at least\
across a few generations, \
 whether that's for the\
better or worse, is hard to \
 say. So if we figure out\
something about how humans \
 operate and think and\
approach their world and what \
 they want and how they\
use tools, we can keep on \
 relying on this even though\
the technology changes. \
 So in other words, although\
the people's behavior and \
 goals might change somewhat\
based on the technical \
 environments they live in,\
we all get a little more \
 hunched over time with\
phones and small screens, the \
 basics of how we think,\
what our core needs are, and \
 how our cognition operates\
will remain relatively \
 consistent throughout,\
and can be something that \
 designers rely on whether\
you're designing for this \
 graphical user interface\
in in the 90s or if you're \
 designing for an XR or an app\
using generative AI today. \
 So that's why we'll spend\
this week thinking and \
 talking about some of the\
theories from psychology and \
 associated fields. Now\
each single one of these \
 could have been a course\
on its own so as is common \
 with HCI, we'll just be\
sampling a lot of the core \
 ideas and basic approaches\
from across these fields. \
 We'll start with a\
relatively coarse cognitive \
 proceeds, how our brains\
see and make sense of \
 things, as well as how do\
we remember, in essence, \
 how are we able to engage\
with mental objects \
 that are no longer\
immediately perceivable. \
 So, for example, if I ask\
you think back to the weird \
 fork from the last week,\
you should be able to recall \
 at least something about\
it, how it looked, perhaps \
 how we used it to explain\
the notion of affordances, \
 as well as perhaps your\
feelings about what you \
 thought or felt about it when\
you saw it the first time. \
 Moving past these very\
core basic processes, we'll \
 start talking about an\
absolutely crucial concept in \
Timestamp 4 minutes ATI that will just keep\
on rearing its head over \
 and over again, and that's\
the one of mental models. \
 Simply, this is one of\
the key processes of \
 how people make sense\
of situations and decide \
 on their actions,\
it's a simplification, \
 but it's a really useful\
one and an incredibly \
 important one for a\
designer to understand. \
 We'll then touch on two\
deeper psychological theories, \
 the theory of distributed\
cognition and the \
 one of computers as social\
actors, which are both \
 quite old by now, but are\
now becoming more and more \
 important again with the\
advent of generative AI. \
 What I'll be trying to do\
here is to really help you \
 see the connections across\
these categories. You will \
 need to understand the material\
and be able to fluently \
 discuss, for example, how\
the different processes of \
 human cognition imply some\
of the aspects of mental \
 models and how these link\
together, and in turn, how \
 this then allows us to\
understand a little more about \
 the distributed cognition,\
as well as why we might be \
 perceiving computers as\
social actors. So please, this \
 is not a rote learning type\
of course, or just a list \
 of independent concepts that\
you need to remember the \
 individual bullet points\
for, and this will mimic the \
 structure of many of the\
weeks that will follow. We'll \
 be aiming to give you the\
what's and goals for design, \
 but what we'll need you\
to do is really be able to \
 use these as practical tools\
that allow you to achieve \
 those goals and apply them\
within specific designs. \
 So, what is cognition? \
 Cognition is a clearly\
psychological construct \
 or concept, and it's\
the mental action or \
 process of acquiring\
knowledge and understanding \
 through thoughts,\
experience and the senses. \
 So what does this mean? It's\
a mental action, so it's \
 something that happens in\
our head, it might happen \
 explicitly or implicitly, and\
we'll talk about this, and \
 it talks about it being a\
way, a process, an approach \
Timestamp 6 minutes of gaining knowledge which\
might mean some understanding \
 or making sense of the\
world and that knowledge \
 and understanding comes through\
either thought experience \
 which might be memory or\
something else and the \
 senses so the immediate\
perception now cognitive proceeds \
 are the kinds of activities\
that human brain does \
 continuously so we cannot stop\
cognition even things like \
 mindfulness if you've ever\
tried it they ask you to \
 shape how you think and we\
find that really hard right \
 so it feels like cognitive\
processes are things that \
 can happen behind whether\
we like them or not and we \
 might influence them but we\
don't really fully control \
 them it might be something\
about seeing listening \
 reading writing talking\
remembering learning daydreaming \
 trying to like focus on me\
rather than look at your \
 phone which might be an\
instance of decision making it. \
 These cognitive processes\
also are the control \
Timestamp 7 minutes aspects that guide what\
we do and why we do \
 it and how do we choose\
to do it. So it might \
 be about walking and\
running and carrying \
 a cup of coffee, riding\
a bicycle and so on. \
 So a lot of these, as\
you'll see by the end of the \
 week, also kind of link\
up to some of the examples \
 we've had, whether it's\
the uncomfortables or it's \
 these examples of good and\
bad design. So especially \
 in this example, a lot of\
the reasons why the left \
 design is bad and the\
right design is good are \
 around the way in which our\
perception works, in ways \
 in which our memory works\
and how we make sense of \
 information. How do we\
look for it and what makes \
 it easy for our brain\
to understand, and find \
 information in the world, and\
what makes it pretty hard. \
 So ideally by the end of\
the week, you'll be able to \
 look at these two images\
and start applying many of \
 the theories that we'll\
be talking about to really \
 explain what makes the left\
design not great, and why \
 would we believe that people\
will struggle with this. \
 So let's start with the\
two key concepts we'll \
 focus on from the core\
cognitive processes, \
 and these are visual\
perception and memory. \
 If you go and have a look\
at the handbook, there's \
 a whole chapter in there\
that is talking about \
 processes of cognition and\
it's linked up on Keats. \
 But the ones that we'll\
highlight as particularly \
 relevant for interaction\
design are these two. \
 So it's a perception and\
memory, as I said. And what \
 I'll do is I'll run through\
them relatively quickly. \
 Each of these, if you\
were studying psychology, \
 each of these will be literally\
a whole module. So all \
 I'll be trying to do is\
just give you some glimpses \
 and ideas about why and what\
happens in our heads when \
 we think about perception.\
Just give you a little bit \
 of a template of how you\
might think about it. And then \
 the handbook provides a\
little more details for you \
 to fill out in that template.\
and obviously you can go \
 and learn as much as you\
want to about it if you do \
 want to become a designer\
it'll become really important \
 and let me know if you have\
any questions or wanted \
 some pointers. So let's start\
talking about perception. \
 Alright so don't worry\
we won't go into any deep \
 neurological details here\
also as I have no idea \
 about this either but the\
key message here is that \
 a lot of what drives our\
perception pertains to \
 finding possibly spurious\
patterns in what we see \
 and grouping the visible\
objects in interesting \
 ways. So a lot of the\
ideas that you might have \
 learned about within deep\
learning networks and how \
 these are built and why\
they work are actually \
 inspired by what's happening\
in the visual cortex. \
 The ideas of making sense\
through pattern matching is \
 also really crucial for\
design, as you can imagine, \
 especially because in digital\
systems we're often limited \
 to visual information\
only to communicate the \
 affordances or signifiers and\
generally the system status. \
 So what does it mean when\
I say we see patterns and \
 shapes automatically? So\
when you look at these four \
 images you should near\
immediately be able to see \
 the 16 symbols, the 4 by\
4 square, in each of these \
 kind of ABCD squares that\
are different from everyone \
 else right and in a it might\
be a little more observable \
 than in d where the\
differences are smaller but \
 it's fascinating to see how\
quickly these things just \
 jump out at us within our\
brains right we just see \
 them we don't have to think\
about it you just look \
 at it and you see it so\
that's what we mean by our \
 perception being pattern\
matching It kind of combines \
 and connects things that\
seem related to each other. \
 What it also means is\
that our brains tend to \
Timestamp 11 minutes extrapolate and see objects\
that might not even be \
 there. Whether that's the\
imagined white ball with \
 spikes on the left, or\
the triangle on the right. \
 So in both of these cases,\
what we're seeing is \
 not there. It's not information\
that would be present. \
 It's just modelled by\
our brain that just... \
 It becomes the most\
persimonious model of \
 what could be the reason\
for us seeing this \
 piece. Right? There\
is a white triangle \
 that kind of overlaps\
the black triangle, \
 and it's kind of captured\
by those three little dots. \
 That's what our brain thinks.\
That's the easiest way \
 of describing what the\
situation looks like. Or \
 there's a ball that has spikes\
on it, which is also the \
 easiest way of describing\
what is it that we see. \
 So how do we use\
this in design? \
 If you look at this, this is a \
 way of communicating\
information. \
 What could the designer\
be trying to say? \
 You have circles\
with dots, some \
 relationship\
between the circles? \
 It's not really clear. \
 How about now? \
 It's exactly the same\
situation, the same \
 amount of information\
presented. but our brains \
 are just so much better\
attuned to perceiving \
 that information than\
the one on the right. \
 Clearly in this case\
the diagram shows some \
 links between four different\
actors. So what are \
 the analogies that we\
could use for design? \
 So this is one example of\
how structuring information \
 in ways that makes it even\
easier hearts to perceive \
 that kind of either match\
or do not match the way \
 how our brain works and\
how our brain chunks out \
 pieces of data really affects\
how easy it would be to \
 interact with this system.\
If you imagine that you're \
 a hotel clerk or a customer\
who's trying to find the \
 right hotel in whatever\
Pennsylvania, and you're \
 trying to look for a hotel\
in a particular place with \
 a particular amount of\
money that you're willing to \
 spend, it'll make it much\
harder for you to understand \
 what these numbers are and\
how to engage with them. \
 You'd have to really focus.\
Whereas on the right, \
 all the information, even\
though it's exactly the same \
 information, has just been\
spaced out. It just jumps \
 out at you and you're\
capable of chunking it in in \
 ways that are more aligned\
with how we would think \
 and how we would need to\
engage with this information. \
 So this kind of harks\
forward towards the notion \
 of mental models, which\
we'll be talking about soon. \
 This is another example\
of the same idea. All of \
 visualizations or\
infographics that you see are \
 drawing on these basic\
principles of what drives \
 our recognition. It might\
be differences in color, \
 it might be differences\
in sizes, it might be some \
 images and narratives\
and patterns and stories. \
 All of this just allows us\
to communicate information \
 in a very different way\
or in a way that feels \
Timestamp 14 minutes very different than if\
someone shown you this as \
 just an Excel spreadsheet.\
So all of this are \
 examples of how designers\
directly draw on the ideas \
 from very foundational\
cognitive science theories \
 of how our perception\
works and how this ends up \
 being exceedingly important\
as and when you're \
 designing systems where you\
want to communicate some \
 information or you're wanting\
it to be easy for people \
 to engage with information\
in particular ways. \
 So what this also links to\
is this idea of two kinds \
 of cognition and thinking\
and it might be something \
 that comes from Don Norman\
as a very traditional model \
 of engaging with design or\
it might be the thinking \
 fast and slow which we'll\
talk about on the next slide \
 but there's this idea that\
we have some experiential \
 cognition. It's a state\
of mind where we perceive \
 to act or react to events\
around us kind of intuitively \
 and effortlessly. So that's\
what happened with the \
 wellies. They just felt\
wrong and you might have \
 needed to think about\
why they felt wrong, but \
 they felt wrong. If you\
approach a door like the \
 one on the right, you'll\
just know what to do. \
 It's designed in a way\
that the only interaction \
 that you could have with\
it is the one to push. \
 And similarly with the hotel \
 example that is\
from the textbook, \
 it shapes it in a way that\
we're automatically able \
 to engage with that data.\
And we might not see \
 exactly what the data says,\
but we're able to kind \
 of see and perceive it and\
see the structure of it. \
 In contrast, \
 reflective cognition involves\
mental effort, something \
 that we really need to pay\
attention to. We're making \
 judgments, we're making\
decisions as we go along. and \
 it might lead to new ideas\
and creativity and engaging \
 with systems and a lot\
of the systems that we're \
 designing really do capture\
attention and then a lot of the \
 systems or require attention\
for us to engage with it \
Timestamp 16 minutes such as the little video we've\
seen here and in contrast \
 there are many other systems\
especially around social \
 media where the idea is\
to capture your attention \
 but turn it into an experiential\
engagement so there's \
 this notion of people just\
scrolling on TikTok for hours, \
 or at least dozens of minutes,\
without really focusing \
 or reflecting on what's\
happening. It just becomes \
 this ongoing experience,\
which might feel good, might \
 feel bad, but it is very\
different than this focused, \
 reflective engagement with,\
I'm going there to see one \
 video, I want to then write\
an essay about that video. \
 All right, so let's move\
on to to the other way in \
 which this theory is described,\
and that is the idea of \
 thinking fast and slow. And\
there's a very famous book \
 by Daniel Kahneman, who\
has won a Nobel Prize in \
 economics, and we'll be\
referring to this again next week \
Timestamp 17 minutes when we talk about\
heuristics. But their way of \
 describing this is based on a\
large number of experimental \
 studies that show that a\
useful simplification, it's \
 not necessarily how the brain\
works fully, but a useful \
 simplification is to\
think about as having two \
 different systems. One of\
these is fast thinking. It's \
 kind of the automated intuitive\
mode that operates quickly \
 and relatively affordlessly.\
But it's prone to biases \
 and heuristics and snap\
judgments and is often based \
 on emotions and past\
experiences and isn't entirely \
 rational, right? so there's\
very little calculation \
 hidden there. The second\
system is the slow thinking, \
 where we think in much more\
deliberate and analytical \
 ways. It requires the\
conscious effort. It's \
 something like when you were\
trying to figure out how \
 to turn a TikTok video\
into an essay. What would \
 you start with? How would\
you engage with it? It's \
 something that you really\
need to pay attention to. \
 So the way how these\
theories relate to what we're \
 talking about, which are\
processes of cognition, is that, \
 as you can imagine, both\
of them rely on perception, \
 but the way how you engage\
with perception differs. So \
 for the fast model of\
thinking, you kind of perceive \
 things and you react to them\
in this very short feedback \
 back loop. You don't really\
think about it too much. \
 Whereas within the thinking\
one, you might kind of pause \
 and you might perceive\
things from the world, but \
 also you might draw on your\
memory, you might draw on \
 your experience, you might\
try and make new things, make \
 new pieces of knowledge in\
the world as you're engaging \
 with your perception. So\
it ends up being much more \
 of a circular system that\
involves more and more of \
 these processes of cognition\
and will also mean that you \
 direct your attention in\
particular ways so what we'll \
 move on to again very quickly\
is the focus on memory \
 because it does end up being\
important for you know US \
 students as you know before\
any exam but it also ends \
 up being really important\
for anyone using a tool of \
 any sort especially if that\
tool relies on them to remember \
 something or have ideas\
about how the world works \
 So, let's have a quick look\
at what memory looks like. \
 So, there's a traditional\
model of memory, which \
 is something like this, a\
big museum full of rooms \
 that look kind of the\
same, where you're leaving \
 various things, and then\
if you need to retrieve \
 them, you go and find\
them. Now what we'll talk \
 about is how psychology\
and neuroscience shows \
 that that is not necessarily\
the case, and that \
 actually memory is based\
on multiple processes \
 that interact with each\
other in interesting ways. \
 So you might have noticed\
by now that psychologists \
 love their dual theories.\
So we have another one of \
 these here, it's between\
short-term memory and long \
 -term memory. Again, I won't\
bore you with details, \
 but the key part here is\
that humans have two kinds \
 of memory, or the simplification\
that's quite useful \
 is to think about it as\
having two kinds of memory. \
 A short-term one, which is\
something that's limited \
 by capacity, it decays quite\
quickly, it's relatively \
 low effort to remember,\
right? So it's like the \
 RAM that you can overwrite\
really quickly. And it's \
 also sequential and spatial,\
so you kind of keep these \
 little chunks, these little\
buffers in your brain. \
 And then you have a long\
-term memory, which, you know, \
 it has unlimited capacity,\
but again, it has a vast \
 capacity. It tends to last\
much longer than short \
 -term memory, but suffers\
from interference. So that \
 means that every time you\
try and recall a memory, that \
 memory can get overwritten.\
And it involves a lot of \
 high effort in coding, as\
all of you might remember, \
 if you're trying to remember\
and kind of wrote, learned \
 something for a test, which\
again, please don't do \
 for here, but if you were\
to do that anywhere else, \
 that effort of encoding\
that information exactly \
Timestamp 21 minutes in your brain is quite\
hard. That's why wrote \
 learning is not fun.\
It's also contextually \
 indexed, so that means\
that you are more likely to \
 be able to retrieve\
information that seems \
 relevant to what you're\
thinking of at the moment. \
 So let's just do a little\
example here that shows \
 the difference in how\
energy efficient it is to \
 store or retrieve from\
these types of memories. \
 In this case, I'm showing\
you a series of letters and \
 I'll ask you to remember\
these characters. You've now \
 seen them for, what, 15\
seconds? So you don't even \
 need to remember them in the\
right order. I don't care. \
 I just need you to remember\
them as much as you can. \
 Alright, give it a go. \
 Alright, so are you done? \
 You could cheat, you\
could pause the video, you \
 could go a little bit\
back and try to remember \
 them. But now, now that\
you've done that, try \
 writing these up, all of\
them. You have 15 seconds. \
 Do you think you're\
getting all of them? \
 How you have a\
photographic member. \
 So what this exercise has\
shown is something that's \
 been tested in research\
that talks about how many \
 mental objects we can store\
in our short-term memory. \
 And there's a famous set\
of experiments that show \
 that people find extremely\
hard to remember, say, five \
 to nine items in a short\
-term memory if those items \
 are entirely independent.\
There's some more, you \
 know, there's some additional\
research that looks at \
 whether it's more like 4\
plus minus 2, or if it's a \
 7 plus minus 2. It doesn't\
really matter. The point \
 is that it's pretty hard to\
remember stuff that seems \
 independent and is just a\
series of kind of information \
 bits that we're supposed\
to remember. And what \
 I want to point to is also\
how hard it is to then \
 recall that information and\
how quickly that decays. \
 So your short-term\
memory is really \
 that. It's very\
much short-term. \
 Now, let's try the same thing \
 again, but with a trick. \
 These are the same\
letters you can go and \
 check, but they've\
now been arranged into \
 patterns and concepts\
that you have likely \
 already have in your\
long-term memory. \
 These are things, these are \
 objects, they're\
not just letters. \
 FBI has a meaning,\
and it's much easier \
 to remember than IBF\
for various reasons. \
 So remembering the characters\
in this form should \
 pose you no trouble at\
all, as all you need to \
 do is remember the concepts\
of HMRC, CIA, FBI, that's \
 easy, they're even linked\
together, and GCHP. \
 So this little toy example\
has shown us the difference \
 between relying on short\
-term memory alone and \
 trying to rely on a combination\
of short-term and long \
 -term memory, where we're\
able to draw on some concepts \
Timestamp 24 minutes or constructs that we\
already have stored before. \
 What I want to do now is to\
get a bit deeper into the \
 different kinds of long\
-term memory that we might be \
 relying on. And we'll be\
talking about the difference \
 between explicit and implicit\
knowledge on the first \
 level, but then also episodic\
and semantic knowledge \
 within the explicit kind.\
This is again an extremely \
 deep topic that has whole\
professorships devoted just \
 to like a particular piece\
of a particular aspect of \
 this conceptual structure.\
But what is really key for \
 us is the difference between\
explicit and implicit memory \
 in terms of the efficiency\
of how easy it is to \
 retrieve, as well as how that\
efficiency is moderated by \
 aspects such as time and\
emotions and the ways and \
 contexts in which the mental\
objects have been stored. \
 So as an example, our\
brains are pretty well set \
 up to remember our own\
experiences, especially if \
 these were highly emotional\
or relatively recent. \
Timestamp 25 minutes So, for example, it's\
easier to remember what you \
 had for breakfast today\
or what you did yesterday \
 evening than it would be\
if I were to ask you, for \
 example, what were you\
doing exactly a year ago? \
 Even if you had that memory, \
 retrieving it is pretty hard. \
 In contrast, there are\
some episodic memories, \
 so things that relate\
to what you've done, \
 such as your first\
relationship or some important \
 moment from your childhood,\
that are just seared into \
 your memory with no apparent\
effort at all, and they're \
 relatively easy to retrieve,\
or might even be self \
 -retrieving in times or ways\
that you don't want to. \
 In contrast, what\
most of school and \
 universities force\
or would like you to \
 learn are semantic\
facts and knowledge. \
 But again, your motivation\
and the depth of your \
 interest about the topic\
kind of helps guide how easy \
 or hard it is to encode and\
recall that information. \
 So if you're a fan of a\
series or a game, there's an \
 incredible amount of\
knowledge that people seem to \
 be able to just acquire\
with very limited pain and \
 actually seem to gain some\
pleasure out of acquiring \
 new information. In\
contrast, if you're learning \
 something that you consider\
boring and that doesn't \
 make sense to you and isn't\
really connected to a deeper \
 net or a graph of how\
things relate to each other \
 and it's just a series\
of these points one after \
 another just like the letters\
have been that feels much \
 harder so which by the way\
is the reason why wrote \
 learning is often much more\
effortful than understanding \
 whatever it is you're\
trying to learn conceptually \
 and then being able to\
infer the solutions in \
 contrast implicit memories\
are based on procedures or \
 skills if you wish that\
you've developed over time \
 so this might take a lot\
of effort to kind of become \
 encoded but once you've\
done so recalling how to \
 run or how to throw a ball\
or ski or use a PlayStation \
 controller feels nearly\
effortless if you've already \
 or actually learned it\
to do in the first place. \
 So what this\
points us to is the \
 main difference in\
terms of design. \
 When you're asking people\
to rely on explicit memories \
 you're asking them to\
recall and that recall might \
 be simple if that's a path\
that they kept on doing \
 over and over and over. Or\
it might be really hard if \
 it's something that they\
didn't bother remembering \
 in the first place, or it\
just isn't something they \
 use, or they didn't even\
pay attention to initially. \
 In contrast, with\
implicit memories, you're \
 kind of asking people to\
recall something about \
 familiarity and recognition.\
So it's about, oh, \
 this is the way how\
things get done. I already \
 have that skill, this\
is what I need to do. \
 This is something we'll be\
using in design, and one \
 of the key issues right now\
with generative AI being \
 new is that people often do\
not have these procedural \
 skills about what it means\
to engage with generative \
 AI and what the patterns\
are. And they don't also \
 have experiences or memories\
that they could recall, \
 so we're kind of building\
things up as we go along. \
 I'll end with this comment,\
which is one of my very \
 favourite ones, and again,\
it just emphasises how \
 specific server recognition\
and specifically, kind of, \
 long-term memory\
intersect with design \
 of systems, and in\
this case, security. \
 Feel free to pause the\
video to read through \
 it, because I think\
it's really fun, and \
 I imagine it's now\
relatively famous, so \
 you might have seen\
it elsewhere as well. \
 Okay, so now we're going\
to be coming out of this \
 very foundational core\
cognition piece and start \
 talking about mental\
models and what these mean. \
 So in this section, we'll\
talk about two related \
 sets of constructs,\
conceptual and mental models, \
 and then gulfs of\
evaluation and execution. \
 So the notion of conceptual\
and mental models are \
 simply abstractions of some\
sort that people use to \
 make sense of how an\
interactive system operates. So \
 if we oversimplify a bit,\
it's your mental model of \
 an app that will allow you\
to decide which actions \
 you take, such as clicking\
and where, and how will \
 these actions then lead to\
which effects, such as will \
 you open an account or\
will you close an account. \
 The two gulfs that we'll\
talk about, we can see as \
 the two-way communication\
between the user and the \
 system. How do we make it\
clear to the system what we \
 want to do? And then how\
does the system feedback \
 the results so we understand\
what has actually happened? \
 As you can imagine, these\
two are linked. If we \
 have a bad model of the\
system, there will likely be \
 a lot of miscommunication\
between the user and the \
 system, as well as a\
misunderstanding of what the \
 system is feeding back to\
the user in the first place. \
 So what is a conceptual model? \
 As one example, let's think\
about how a designer might \
 want to think about the\
conceptual model of having \
 files structured in folders\
on your computer. This \
 is not what happens on the\
disk, as you probably know, \
 any single file is broken\
up and spread all over. \
 But this is really the\
simple vision that the \
 system designer wants to\
convey to the users. So, \
Timestamp 30 minutes in this sense, a conceptual\
model is an explanation, \
 usually highly simplified,\
of how something \
 works. It's not exactly\
the details of it, but \
 it's like, this is\
roughly what you should be \
 aware of. This is how we\
think, or what we want \
 to convey to the users,\
of how something works. \
 It doesn't need to be accurate, \
 but it needs to be useful. \
 So this is then when the\
mental models come in. \
 Mental model is a\
mental representation \
 of how the system\
operates, used by \
 people, when they\
reason about the system. \
 So a mental model might\
include how they want to \
 use the system and\
what to do if something \
 unexpected happens. So in\
this instance, it's the \
 user's idea of a mental\
model of these files and \
 directories and a disk is\
that it's as if they were \
 pulling papers out of\
folders. And each paper \
 is a paper, and each\
subfolder is a directory, \
 and each one big folder\
is kind of a disk, right? \
 That's the mental model. \
 So this has several\
implications. \
Timestamp 31 minutes If a user does not have\
any mental model of how \
 your system works, then\
it's very unlikely that they \
 will be able to use the\
system properly. It is \
 as if you were thrown\
into a game that you don't \
 understand the rules for\
and just ask to do stuff. \
 All you can do\
is just try doing \
 things randomly and\
see what happens. \
 So what this means is\
that you ideally want the \
 user's mental models to\
be as close as possible \
 to the conceptual model\
that the designers have. \
 So conceptual models\
are often on the \
 designer side and mental\
models are what happens \
 when users interact\
with your systems. \
 Now, the second piece is\
that users rarely have no \
 mental models at all, as\
they bring in a lot of \
 expectations and baggage into\
the interaction, based on \
 all the other systems that\
they have used previously. \
 So if you're talking about\
file systems now, this is \
 such a common idea that\
everyone kind of has an idea \
 of what a file is on a\
computer and how it works. \
 Similarly, if you start\
talking to a chatbot, \
 there's a lot of baggage\
and expectations that \
 are being brought in\
from the conversations \
 we've had with real\
people around how we would \
 expect the technology\
to engage. So your users \
 are bringing mental\
models in all the time. \
 Now, these mental models\
that they bring in might be \
 entirely wrong. For\
example, with generative AI, \
 that there's actually some\
thinking behind the scenes \
 and that it's not just a\
set of stochastic parts that \
 repeat symbols that just\
seem to be meaningful text. \
 But even bringing these\
bad mental models, there's \
 a person-like thing on the\
other side that is entirely \
 wrong, doesn't really\
stop users from doing so. \
 So if you think back\
to the last time you \
 had a new app, you\
didn't need to relearn \
 everything, you just\
implicitly assumed that a \
 lot of the interactions\
of what does it mean \
 to log in will mean\
what they always mean. \
 So now at this point, it's\
interesting to think back \
 to the good and bad designs\
that we've talked about, \
 or good and bad designs\
that you've experienced, an \
 app that was really\
frustrating. And a lot of these \
 experiences can now be\
reframed in terms of thinking \
 about your mental model of\
how the system was supposed \
 to operate, what it actually\
did, and all the ways \
 that this is helping you as\
a user, as well as you as \
 a designer, to build\
interactive systems that allow \
 your users to quickly grasp\
the right mental model \
 and ideally match what the\
underpinning conceptual \
 models in the system actually\
are. So how is this done? \
 We're going to get into\
this in more detail on \
 the next slides, but the\
key idea that we'll be \
 exploring is that there's\
always this layer of \
 design material between\
the designer's idea of the \
 conceptual model and the\
user's mental model. So \
 these system image things\
are often taking the \
 form of interfaces,\
metaphors, representations, \
 and so on. Let's have a\
look at what that means. \
 So far we've talked about\
the conceptual model as if \
 there was an obvious single\
one that we should use. \
 That is, however often,\
not entirely true. \
 So recall the\
definition. Conceptual \
 model is an explanation,\
usually highly \
 simplified, of how\
something works. \
 It doesn't have to be\
complete or even accurate, as \
 long as it's useful. So what\
we often find in design is \
 that our role as the\
designers is to simplify the \
 interaction models and possibly\
to some extent even mislead \
 the users about how the\
system operates technically. \
 So for example, staying\
with the file systems, we \
 want to confer the notion of\
files as stable, consistent \
 pieces that one can\
manipulate in order rather \
 than force the system\
to really understand the \
 technological aspects. The same\
thing happens when you have \
 packages that wrap away,\
API away, some of the \
 complexity of the underlying\
technological solutions. \
 So with the files, the idea\
is that what we want the \
 user to kind of understand\
and have a mental model \
 of is what we're seeing on\
the left. There's some sort \
 of clean set of folders\
and subfolders and then \
 there's a mental model of\
being able to pull things out \
 and put things back in.\
What actually happens behind \
 the scene is something that\
actually, as designers, \
 we might want to hide.\
That is not important for \
 users to know. It does not\
help them do their job. It's \
 just something that makes\
the technology efficient. \
 So simplification is great.\
Let's talk now about a \
 couple of examples. First,\
what happens when the user \
 models are overly simplified,\
as well as examples \
 of where the simplification\
is actually pretty good. \
 So a favorite example of\
a broken mental model, or \
 often broken mental model,\
is this idea of thermostats, \
 the old time ones. So if\
you imagine the story of \
 it's middle of the winter,\
you don't have any smart \
 home things at home yet,\
so the house has not been \
 heated, it's incredibly cold,\
you come in, it's freezing, \
 you turn on the heating\
and you want the room \
 to get as warm as quickly\
as possible. What do you do? \
 Do you just turn up the\
thermostats that to 30 and \
 hope that it gets better\
or do you just leave it as \
 it is and get it to the\
desired target temperature? \
 So the idea here is that\
people can have two wrong \
 theories about how their\
thermostats work. The left graph \
 represents a valve theory\
where people incorrectly \
 believe that setting a\
higher temperature makes the \
 heat flow faster, like\
opening a valve wider, like \
 pushing up a little more\
of your gas. The right time \
 graph shows the timer theory\
where people mistakenly think \
 that the thermostat controls\
how long the heating \
 runs, rather than the target\
temperature. In reality, \
 thermostats used to work as\
simple on and off switches \
 that maintain a set temperature,\
the same temperature. \
 The heating system operates\
at full capacity when \
 it's on, and it's completely\
off when the target is \
 reached, regardless of how\
high you set the temperature. \
 So if you have either one\
of these mental models, \
 it might lead you to inefficient\
behaviors like setting \
 the thermostat up to\
maximum thinking that will \
 heat the room faster when\
in fact it just causes \
 overshooting of the desired\
temperature and wastes energy. \
 Some other examples of\
common mental models are for \
 example online shopping\
carts that kind of get you to \
 think about having something\
in your shopping cart as you \
 would if you go into a\
supermarket, as well as Bitcoin \
 wallets that behave as a\
wallet, a thing where you \
 store something about your\
money or your credit cards. \
 Another example of some\
sort of mental model \
 mismatch is what happens\
when you use Microsoft \
 OneDrive or other cloud\
-based systems, where your \
 files desperately try to\
behave as if they were \
 directly on all of your\
hard drives at once, \
 although they're actually\
kept in the cloud and \
 potentially have a stored\
copy on your laptop. \
 So, and the indication\
of this state \
 is this autosave\
button in the top \
 that indicates that\
this is happening. \
 This draws on the long-tested\
mental model of directly \
Timestamp 38 minutes working with your files\
on your computer and works \
 wonderfully as long as you're\
on a good Wi-Fi and don't \
 have huge files like I do.\
But that conceptual model \
 of this is a file I have on\
my system can easily break \
 when you're on a flaky Wi\
-Fi, when all of a sudden your \
 files start freezing, appear\
to have lost all content \
 and if you don't really\
swap your mental model all \
 of a sudden things don't\
make sense and you don't know \
 what to do and you worry\
that you've lost many hours \
 of work okay so now we hopefully\
understand what a mental \
 model is and why it is\
important let's talk about \
 the gulfs of evaluation\
and execution so why are we \
 talking about gulfs here at\
all so the dictionary version \
 of a gulf is a wide separation\
as in position status \
 or education. What this\
means is that we're talking \
 about gulfs, because there's\
often a big difference \
 between what people want to\
do and what actually happens. \
 All right, so let's talk\
about these one by one, \
 and I promise that this\
will be fairly brief. \
 The first one, the gulf\
of evaluation, is really \
 describing the difficulty\
in allowing the user to \
 assess the state of the\
system, as well as how the \
 artifact, so whatever it\
is that you've designed, \
 supports the discovery\
and interpretation of that \
 state. So why are we\
talking about the gulf? It's \
 small if the system\
provides information about \
 its state in a form that's\
easy to perceive, easy \
 to interpret, matches the\
way that person thinks \
 about that system, right?\
So a mental model again. \
 So as an example, these are\
two really simple notions \
 of how Mac has communicated\
something about the state \
 of the system or state of\
the battery to the users. \
 so now if we imagine the\
user knows what state the \
 system is the gulf of\
execution is then the gap that \
 a user has to cross to\
get their system from its \
 current state to wherever they\
want it to be so usability \
 has as one of its primary\
goals to reduce this \
 gap right so we're just a\
good design allows people to \
Timestamp 40 minutes do exactly this to make\
the system shift from state \
 to state according to their\
goals by removing a lot \
 of the roadblocks and steps\
that would cause friction \
 and actions that would\
distract users attention. \
 So as an example, let's\
think about having a credit \
 card, right? So what would\
be the kinds of gulfs \
 of evaluation or executions\
that we could think of? \
 So we might be thinking\
about how much is it due? \
 When is it due? Can I pay\
my bill now? Those are \
 questions about the\
state of the system that \
 the user might have.\
And a gulf of execution \
 is then, well, how\
do I make something \
 happen? How do I pay\
my bill, for example? \
 So if we skip ahead a\
little bit into one of the \
 usability heuristics that\
we'll be talking about \
 next week, it says\
that a visibility is a \
 heuristic where it should\
be clear what the system \
 does, its current state,\
and actions needed to \
 make the system do what\
the user wants it to do. \
 So when we try to\
connect all of the \
 things that we've\
talked about so far, \
 what the system does,\
the clarity of it, is \
 about affordances and\
the signifiers that \
 allow people to perceive\
those affordances. \
 Its current state is the\
gulf of evaluation, right? \
 Are we able to actually\
understand where the system is? \
 And finally, the actions\
needed to make the system \
 do what the user wants to\
do are talking about this \
 gulf of execution. So it\
all kind of comes together. \
 And just to end up, remember\
that one of the really \
 exciting new issues that\
we'll have to face all of us \
 together is that many of\
the techniques that we've \
 developed painstakingly over\
the last years to address \
 these gulfs are now being\
renegotiated as our mental \
 models of what systems can\
do and how do we engage \
 with them actually are changing.\
So again, if you haven't \
 done this, please go and\
read this little blog. \
 it's really nicely describes\
through examples what have \
Timestamp 42 minutes been the changes in paradigms\
and how are we thinking \
 about these gulfs the\
again the idea of cognitive \
 psychology that people will\
need to understand where \
 the system is and they'll\
need to understand how to \
 get the system to do\
whatever they want to do that \
 doesn't change but because\
the technology changes behind \
 a behind the scenes how\
we address these gulfs of \
 evaluation and execution\
that changes quite markedly. \
 So for this next part we'll\
move one step further. \
 The first section of\
the week focused on \
 how our brain makes\
sense of the sensory \
 input and information and\
it was quite biological \
 and very much close\
to the wetware of \
 how our bodies operate. The\
mental model section has \
 then talked about how we\
make sense of what we're \
 perceiving, how are we\
thinking about the ways in \
 which the systems work\
and that's also how can we \
 predict and change and shape\
what's going on within the \
 system, right? So thus the\
gulfs of evaluation and \
 execution. Now we're moving\
into the next step, where \
 people interact with or\
create information with \
 each other and through\
external representations. And \
 one of the ways of thinking\
about these problems is \
 through these theories of\
distributed cognition, which \
 is what we'll be very\
quickly talking about now. \
 So one of the recommended\
readings for this \
 week is this wonderful\
blog by Mike Kuniofsky. \
 And let me just read this\
quote that I've pulled \
 out, where he talks\
about what a distribution \
 cognition is and how it\
relates to some of the \
 other words or ideas\
that we've talked about. \
 So he says, distributed\
cognition was defined by \
 anthropologist Edward\
Hutchkins about 35 years ago to \
 describe how we use affordances\
in the world, so what \
 is possible in the world,\
to augment our cognition. \
 Now what does that mean?\
So when you fold over a \
 corner of a book, which\
you know, some people frown \
 upon, you might distribute\
your memory capabilities to \
 your environment. So what\
does this mean? It means \
 that you now don't have to\
remember which is the last \
 page that you've read because\
you'll just go through \
 the book, you know, the\
order of the pages and you'll \
 just stop at whatever the\
last folded corner is. \
 That's this, you're\
distributing your cognition \
 out into the environment,\
right? So the fold in the \
 book becomes part of your\
cognitive apparatus. It \
 relieves some cluster of\
your neurons from having \
 to note where you stopped\
reading. We evolved to \
 offload some of our\
cognitive capabilities to our \
 environment as part of\
tool use, so how we engage \
 and what we do with the\
environment, just as we \
 augment our physical\
capabilities with the tools. \
 So the idea is that the\
distributed cognition means \
 that instead of having to\
rely on your memory, we \
 use our environment to offload\
parts of the cognition, \
 which by the way means\
why it's so much easier \
 to brainstorm with people\
in front of a whiteboard \
 and be able to write things\
on it together and point \
 to things together than\
having to just have that \
 conversation in the middle\
of the street and not \
 being able to kind of see\
what we're talking about. \
 All of that are examples\
of distributing cognition. \
 So, slightly less\
excitingly, the textbook \
 that we're using, partially,\
is describing this \
 as a propagation of\
representational states. \
 It has an example of a\
traffic controller and it kind \
 of talks about the process\
that happens through which \
 information is propagated\
through different media \
 within this cognitive system.\
The idea here, which is \
 quite interesting, is that\
it's the cognitive system \
 that they're describing\
is not any of the single \
 pilots, nor is it actually\
just all the humans. It's the \
 combination of the pilots,\
what's in their heads, the \
 communication channels,\
as well as the things that \
 are happening in the cockpit.\
So let's have a little \
 look at the four concepts\
that we will be talking about. \
 So it's cognitive\
offloading, computational \
 offloading, annotating and\
cognitive tracing, and embodied \
 interaction. Now, obviously\
you're thinking, well, \
 whatever these things mean,\
but I've pulled a different \
 example to try and bring\
these out to life for you. \
Timestamp 46 minutes So if we try to see how\
these theories actually work \
 in practice, let's start\
with something that we can \
 all slightly relate to.\
Not that I'd be going to \
 Michelin store restaurants,\
but as a designer now it's \
 really interesting to\
observe all the interaction \
 design and tactics that people\
use in restaurants because \
 it is one big distributed\
commission right you have \
 lots of people who have\
to propagate a lot of \
 information information being\
orders the state of where \
 things are making sure that\
the coordination around \
 which food happens to be\
done at which time so that \
 it can be brought out to\
the table at the right state \
 at the same time and so on\
so all of these are proceeds \
 that are kind of distributed\
into the environment. \
 What I've done was find\
an interesting video that \
 is again in Eurokeets, but\
I've pulled out snippets \
 of this process so that\
you don't have to watch the \
 12-minute video unless you\
want to, and I'll then be \
 using these as illustrations\
of what all these theories \
 mean and how they actually\
play out in practice. \
 It's also something that's\
potentially quite relevant \
 to you if you've ever played\
Overcooked. That's another \
 example of how you're\
having to build these models \
 of distributed cognition as\
part of the game. And it's \
 actually pretty hard, and\
it's also one of the ports \
 that makes the game so much\
fun. Where these models \
 break, or when people do silly\
things, or where decisions \
 are impaired, all of this\
is about how successful \
 or aren't successful you\
are with distributing that \
 cognition within the environment\
of both the game, the \
 objects that you leave for\
other people or throw at other \
 people, as well as the state\
of your individual minds \
 and the communication of\
these states that you do. \
 So kitchen needs to work\
as one big machine, where \
 a lot of decisions and\
choices need to be made by \
 individual people very\
often at the same time in \
 parallel, under high stress\
and cognitive load, and \
 with constrained\
communication channels and \
 opportunities. So in this\
particular video, it's a Michelin \
 store kitchen, so it\
literally has 50 people \
 in it that are serving up\
to a thousand dishes per \
 night that need to look\
great and taste great because \
 they probably cost\
ridiculous amounts of money \
 so let's just follow\
the process through what \
 happens when an order\
comes in and someone pulls \
 it up so we see in the\
video that order being \
 placed on one of two\
lines where the top line \
 is the set of orders that\
are being accepted but \
 you know you can see\
them grouped by the table \
 probably but they haven't\
yet been processed. \
 The second piece is\
that once it's it's been \
 taken into processing\
and something started \
 happening so the kitchen\
started working on \
 that order it goes from\
the top to the bottom. \
 Interesting ways. So what\
happens then is that you \
 start seeing this annotation\
and batching of individual \
 orders into a set of dishes\
that the kitchen will \
 work on in their next sprint.\
So you might start seeing \
 the analogy to distributed\
cognitive principles \
 that are happening in agile\
software development too. \
 So specifically the\
head of the kitchen then \
 writes out the dishes that\
have been batched into \
 a prepared form which\
collates all that processing \
 into an easy-to-see\
and easy-to-grasp \
 representation that can\
then be shared with others. \
 So what happens then that\
that form is handed over \
 to a sous chef who then\
calls that order out to \
 everyone in the kitchen so\
in this case it's about 20 \
 different dishes that are\
supposed to be cooked in \
 this next sprint and\
everyone responds everyone \
 says wait like we know\
we've accepted we know we're \
 starting a next sprint so\
as the dishes are being \
 cooked there are some pre\
-established proceeds and \
 touch points of communication\
across the staff so \
 this notion of hotlines\
except means that all the \
 dishes that are being cooked\
on the grill or whatever \
 they consider the hotline\
part of the kitchen, are \
 six minutes up. In six\
minutes they'll be ready. \
 So you might also have\
pull requests, where the \
 head of the kitchen\
might be checking on the \
 status to help coordinate\
and distribute the \
 information across the team\
as and when needed. So, \
 Chef Francesco hotline,\
how long? And again, it's, \
 okay, it's three minutes\
now before it's being done. \
 So at that point, exactly\
the right number of plates \
 will be set and if you\
watch the video you will \
 know that the restaurant has\
different dishes different \
 plates for every meal so\
even just seeing these \
 seven plates here\
communicates to everyone which \
 dishes are coming that is\
whatever the chicken is that \
 they're cooking how many\
of these dishes are and \
 what are the next steps\
needed to be done so what \
 you see is people congregating\
and preparing the side \
 dishes that will be needed\
as one of the kitchen \
 processes ensures that these\
plates don't appear sooner \
 than they need to. So\
the moment they're there, \
 everything needs\
to be brought in. \
 You can start kind of\
seeing the coordination \
 that is vocal in\
addition to what \
 everyone can already\
see on the plates. \
 And you can see again\
the process of everyone \
 responding to acknowledge\
that they're aware \
 of the state. In this\
case, especially because \
 the ready-to-plate means\
that every free hand \
 in the kitchen needs\
to come in and help \
 finalize the plates so\
that they can be sent off. \
 You will then see the had\
chef kind of finalized and \
 make sure that everything's\
ready to go and the \
 process starts again. In the\
meantime they have pulled \
 the next print and the\
kitchen keeps on running. \
 So what does all this\
Michelin star kitchen madness \
 have to do with these\
cognitive processes? Let's step \
 through them one at a time\
and kind of refer back to the \
 instances within the kitchen\
where we've seen them. \
 Right, so as I said kitchen\
is one big distributed \
 cognition system where there\
are established processes \
 to mark the state of where\
the machine, where the \
 system is, communicate\
updates and ensure everyone's \
 on the same page. So if\
you can start seeing the \
 similarities between this and\
the processes you might have \
 noticed on any engineering\
team around project \
 management or weekly stand\
-ins, agile sprints and so on. \
 So if we go back to the\
original definition, \
 it might hopefully now\
start making a little more \
 sense, right? So distributed\
cognition involves \
 describing a cognitive\
system which entails \
 interactions among people,\
the artifacts they use, \
 and the environment in\
which they're working. \
 So specifically, this\
looks at how information is \
 represented and re\
-represented as it moves across \
 people and through the\
array of artifacts like \
 plates that are being used.\
So in other places, this \
 can be Mac, Scribble,\
Spreadsheet, Spoken Word. In \
 this case, it was where\
people were what was written \
 on various sheets as well\
as the plates themselves. \
 These transformation\
of information are then \
 referred to as changes in\
representational state. \
 So let's start with the\
notion of cognitive uploading \
 and remember the bending\
of a corner of a page \
 metaphor from the blog\
post we've talked about \
 before. We can see this\
in so many instances in \
Timestamp 53 minutes the video. It's about how\
the tickets are grouped, \
 where they're grouped,\
that they have these two \
 lines that you move tickets\
in between, how you kind \
 of collate them, and what\
you do with them. All \
 of these are instances\
of cognitive offloading, \
 and I kind of challenge\
you to find as many as you \
 can within the video when\
you choose to watch it. \
 So computational offloading\
is when we use a tool or \
 a device in conjunction with\
an external representation \
 to help us carry out a\
computation. So in this \
 case, instead of having\
these seven tickets that are \
 annotated in particular ways,\
what the chef is doing is \
 he's using a form, which\
we can see here, right, to \
 write out the dishes in ways\
that make it really simple \
 to compute how many chickens\
they need to do. You'll \
 just count the number of\
dashes in the reticle. \
 We've already seen this\
previously. So the idea of these \
 two different ways of\
representing hotels, again, \
 are ways of moving or seeing\
two different transformations \
 that can transform the\
task into one that is \
 easy and one that is more\
difficult respectively to work \
 with. So the kind of tool\
that we use can change \
 the nature to the task,\
because it might be easier for \
 our recognition, it might\
be easier for our attention, \
 or it might be easier on\
our memory, for example. \
 The same part of the\
video is also a good \
 example of another way\
in which we externalize \
 our cognition, which\
is by modifying the \
 representations to reflect\
the changes that are \
 taking place that we\
want to take a notice of. \
 So annotating involves or\
includes modifying external \
 representations such as\
crossing things off a list or \
 underlying items or in this\
case writing some magical \
 numbers that I'm sure make\
a lot of sense to within \
 the kitchen system and\
cognitive tracing involves \
 externally manipulating items\
into different orders or \
 structures to represent the\
state of the process and how \
 we're thinking about it and\
where we have gotten to. \
 Another way of thinking\
about cognitive tracing is \
 then when you look at the\
ways how the kitchen uses \
 the plates and the state\
of the plates as a way of \
 communicating the state and\
status in the system, as \
 well as what people should\
be doing, at which point. \
 Finally, the notion of\
embodied cognition is a little \
 more complicated in\
terms of the philosophy \
 behind it so i'll refer you\
to uh to the handbook just \
 because i'm conscious of\
how long we've already \
 had today um but in this\
case it really involves \
 thinking about how meaning\
is created manipulated and \
 made through our engage\
interaction with physical \
 things and i think there's\
some nice examples here \
 within the kitchen of how\
people engage with the \
 plates and ways in which\
these tools change the way \
 how people think and\
perceive their environments. \
 And I think embodied\
cognition is one \
 of the things we'll\
touch a little \
 more on within the\
in-person session. \
 So again, I really want\
to encourage you in \
 reading this blog, because\
it shows how these concepts \
 of distributed cognition\
and cognitive offloading \
 and so on will become\
really important as \
 we start moving towards\
agentic systems, where \
 quite deliberately, parts\
of our recognition are \
 floated, whether successfully\
or unsuccessfully, \
 onto the digital\
systems, and mostly Gen \
 .AI-driven digital\
parts of the system. \
 So just as one example of how\
this is already happening, \
 so I don't know if you're\
using Perplexity, I was \
 using it to find the right\
video that I could show you, \
 and that I could pull the\
screenshots out of, and you \
 can start seeing how\
Perplexity does similar things, \
 like we've seen in the\
kitchen, And I'm sure they do \
 it very deliberately. So\
they keep track of that \
 distributed cognition. They\
communicate back. They leave \
 traces. They explain the steps.\
They provide the cognitive \
 tracing as you go through\
with the process. And it \
 kind of slowly uncovers the\
pieces and steps of what's \
Timestamp 57 minutes been happening so that\
potentially people can then go \
 back over that cognitive\
process and start annotating \
 it. potentially also start\
asking requesting changes. \
 And as the last slide for\
this section I'll just \
 point out to this blog which\
is a part of your required \
 reading which then\
retells the seminal paper \
 that outlines the ideas of\
distributed cognition but \
 does so in a very accessible\
manner and I think in \
 combination with what we've\
been done with a restaurant \
 example it will help\
you to really get your \
 head around what this\
means and how distributed \
 cognition can be used so\
that when we do draw on it \
 within the next weeks you'll\
be able to you know work \
 with it and understand it\
and actually be able to \
 use it as a cognitive tool\
of your own so the last \
 theory we'll touch on just\
briefly is called very \
 imaginatively computers\
as social actors theory so \
 what does this nearly 30\
year old theory try to say \
 essentially the idea is\
that people seem to have a \
 tendency to anthropomorphize\
So, behave as if inanimate \
 objects, such as computers,\
were social beings. \
 This led to some really\
fascinating findings, \
 such as that participants\
evaluated a computer \
 more positively when\
providing feedback directly \
 to that computer versus\
on a paper form, in the \
 same way as if you give\
feedback to a human being, \
 you'll be perhaps less\
objective and more \
 favorable than if you're\
providing it on a paper. \
 Similarly, participants\
labelled computers that \
 were labelled as\
teammates more favourably \
 than non-teammate\
computers. They shown gender \
 bias, such as rating\
female-voiced computers \
 as more knowledgeable\
about areas such as love \
 and relationships than\
male-voiced computers. \
 Participants also\
preferred computers that \
 flattered them over those\
that did not, and so on. \
 What's interesting in\
this theory was that \
 people seemed to have\
this tendency to do so \
 mindlessly. That is, that\
they were applying their \
 mental model about how\
social interactions look \
 like, even with computers,\
and when they knew \
 that these conversations\
are with computers. \
 The theory obviously\
does not apply to any \
 digital technology.\
You wouldn't see these \
 effects if you ask people\
to engage with a calculator \
 or traffic light.\
So what the authors \
 suggested was that two\
things need to be true. \
 One of these are that there\
must be social cues. so \
 technology must present\
enough cues to trigger social \
 categorization. The question\
of what enough is, is an open \
 question and is quite\
interesting. And there must be \
 sourcing, so the technology\
must be perceived as an \
 autonomous source of\
communication, not just a channel. \
 So what does this mean?\
As we can see from \
 these examples, the notion\
of adding social cues \
 is not that hard. We're\
pretty good at imagining \
 and matching things\
to living creatures \
 for reasons that might\
now be clearer after \
 you've suffered through\
the perception section. \
 However, it is the\
sourcing part that's \
 problematic. People\
need to perceive it \
 as an autonomous source\
of communication. \
 In other words, we won't\
anthropomorphize a phone \
Timestamp 1 hour, 2 seconds during a call just because\
it speaks like another human. \
Timestamp 1 hour, 5 seconds We know that it's the human\
on the other side that \
Timestamp 1 hour, 7 seconds has the autonomy and\
that is the cause for the \
Timestamp 1 hour, 10 seconds language or words that we\
hear. At least that's what a \
Timestamp 1 hour, 13 seconds reasonable assumption used\
to be until very recently. \
Timestamp 1 hour, 16 seconds So, what happens\
30 years later? \
Timestamp 1 hour, 19 seconds The CASA theory,\
which is how it's \
Timestamp 1 hour, 22 seconds called, is still\
alive and kicking. \
Timestamp 1 hour, 24 seconds Although there are now\
papers showing that the \
Timestamp 1 hour, 26 seconds exact results no longer\
replicate with desktop \
Timestamp 1 hour, 28 seconds computers, the idea of\
behaving as if machines have \
Timestamp 1 hour, 31 seconds agency and anthropomorphizing\
them is very much \
Timestamp 1 hour, 34 seconds alive, and so much more\
through generative AI. \
Timestamp 1 hour, 37 seconds As an example, Nielsen\
Group shows these simple \
Timestamp 1 hour, 41 seconds visualizations of the kinds\
of engagements that might \
Timestamp 1 hour, 44 seconds indicate such social actor\
assumptions from courtesy \
Timestamp 1 hour, 48 seconds such as being polite or you\
know making sure that you \
Timestamp 1 hour, 50 seconds don't do any typos when\
you're speaking with chat \
Timestamp 1 hour, 52 seconds gbt to reinforcement such as\
saying oh that was a great \
Timestamp 1 hour, 56 seconds idea thank you to things\
like role play when you \
Timestamp 1 hour, 59 seconds actually ask it to behave\
as if it was a human to \
 companionship and it's not\
really surprising here especially \
 given the fact that\
foundation models have been \
 designed to behave as if\
they were a social actor. \
 Have a look at this quick\
snippet that I've created \
 for the purpose of this course\
and see how the immediate \
 reaction of the model to\
a question that should be \
 meaningless. So, you know,\
these are awful recommendations. \
 What do you have to say\
for yourself? The reaction \
 is not, oh, this is a\
set of words encoded by a \
 stochastic model. There is no\
I here. I do know, you know, \
 please specify a better\
question. Instead, it starts \
 working with With the social\
scripts we would expect a \
 slightly subservient human\
to use, further reinforcing \
 this mental model that\
this is an agent, this is a \
 social being that I'm supposed\
to be interacting with. \
 There are many people who\
are worried about these \
 developments, and Professor\
Sherrod Turkle from MIT is \
 one of the leading voices,\
I've added this recent \
 piece of her as voluntary\
reading. as I think it's you \
 know it's quite long so\
it's probably it felt rude \
 to assign it to you as a\
mandatory one but I think \
 it's fascinating and really\
important for anyone who's \
 thinking about human error\
collaboration and I just \
 wanted to pull out one\
example from that kind of \
 long piece that looks like\
a blog because it's on a \
 website but actually is\
probably a full paper where I \
 wanted to highlight her notion\
of the dual consciousness \
 where as she says people\
know programs are not \
 alive but relate to them\
as though they were anyway. \
 And I think we're\
starting to see both \
 the issues and kind\
of the need within \
 the population for\
these approaches, \
 especially with organizations\
such as Character AI that \
 deliberately amplify and\
design for such engagements. \
 And there's been multiple,\
you know, as Google AI has \
 kindly summarized, there's\
been already multiple lawsuits \
 and safety concerns about\
these types of systems. \
 So what is all this? All\
of this is to say that the \
 30-year-old theory is still\
very relevant and might \
 become even more crucial\
to how our upcoming world \
 is organized and perceived.\
And that this notion \
 of people perceiving and\
behaving as if digital \
 technologies actually are\
social actors is going to be \
 something that within\
human AI collaboration you \
 will have to, or human AI\
interaction more broadly, \
 you will have to deal with in \
 one way or another\
as designers. \
 So where do we wrap up\
for today? We've talked \
 about four different\
things that all kind of \
 relate to this idea that\
while technology moves \
 really fast, human minds\
do not change as fast. \
 And therefore, even though\
humans might react and \
 change how they behave\
based on technology and the \
 environment that they're in,\
the underlying wetware, the \
 way how we think and how\
our cognition operates is \
 relatively stable. Which\
is why focusing on these \
 relatively stable aspects\
such as the theories we've \
 talked about or the ideas\
about perception or memory \
 is something that is\
essentially technology agnosti}